{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset204 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset204 Arial;}{\f5\fnil\fprq0\fcharset204 Circular{\*\falt sans-serif};}{\f6\fnil\fprq0\fcharset204 Tiempos{\*\falt serif};}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset204 Microsoft YaHei;}{\f8\fnil\fprq2\fcharset204 NSimSun;}{\f9\fnil\fprq2\fcharset204 Arial;}{\f10\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red48\green46\blue45;\red96\green96\blue96;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af9\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049 Normal;}
{\s2\sbasedon16\snext17\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36 \u1047\'c7\u1072\'e0\u1075\'e3\u1086\'ee\u1083\'eb\u1086\'ee\u1074\'e2\u1086\'ee\u1082\'ea 2;}
{\*\cs15\snext15\i\ai \u1042\'c2\u1099\'fb\u1076\'e4\u1077\'e5\u1083\'eb\u1077\'e5\u1085\'ed\u1080\'e8\u1077\'e5;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext17\sb240\sa120\keepn\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 \u1047\'c7\u1072\'e0\u1075\'e3\u1086\'ee\u1083\'eb\u1086\'ee\u1074\'e2\u1086\'ee\u1082\'ea;}
{\s17\sbasedon0\snext17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140 \u1054\'ce\u1089\'f1\u1085\'ed\u1086\'ee\u1074\'e2\u1085\'ed\u1086\'ee\u1081\'e9 \u1090\'f2\u1077\'e5\u1082\'ea\u1089\'f1\u1090\'f2;}
{\s18\sbasedon17\snext18\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\dbch\af10 \u1057\'d1\u1087\'ef\u1080\'e8\u1089\'f1\u1086\'ee\u1082\'ea;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af10\afs24\ai\fs24 \u1053\'cd\u1072\'e0\u1079\'e7\u1074\'e2\u1072\'e0\u1085\'ed\u1080\'e8\u1077\'e5;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20\noline\dbch\af10 \u1059\'d3\u1082\'ea\u1072\'e0\u1079\'e7\u1072\'e0\u1090\'f2\u1077\'e5\u1083\'eb\u1100\'fc;}
}{\*\generator Free_File_Viewers/6.2.3.2$Windows_x86 LibreOffice_project/}{\info{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr2021\mo8\dy5\hr14\min52}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}}{\*\userprops}\deftab709
\viewscale100
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 \u1041\'3f\u1072\'3f\u1079\'3f\u1086\'3f\u1074\'3f\u1099\'3f\u1081\'3f;}}
\formshade\paperh16838\paperw11906\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
{\*\ftnsep\chftnsep}\pgndec\pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sb200\sa120{{\*\bkmkstart arrete_des_consuls_du_20_floreal_an_x_10_mai_1802}{\*\bkmkend arrete_des_consuls_du_20_floreal_an_x_10_mai_1802}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
Decree of the Consuls of 20 flor\u233\'3fal year X (10 May 1802)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 1. - The French people will be consulted on this question:\line "em> Napoleon Bonaparte will he be Consul for life?"}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 2. - Registers will be opened in each municipality where citizens will be invited to register their wishes on this question.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 3. - These registers will be open to the secretariats of all the administrations, to the registries of all the courts, to all the mayors and all the notaries.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 4. - The time limit for voting in each department will be three weeks, counting from the day on which this decree reaches the prefecture;\~and seven days, counting from the day on which the shipment reaches each commune.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{{\*\bkmkstart senatus_consulte_du_14_thermidor_an_x_2_aout_1802_qui_proclame_napoleon_bonaparte_premier_consul_a_vie}{\*\bkmkend senatus_consulte_du_14_thermidor_an_x_2_aout_1802_qui_proclame_napoleon_bonaparte_premier_consul_a_vie}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
S\u233\'3fnatus-consulte of 14 Thermidor year X (2 August 1802), which proclaims Napoleon Bonaparte First Consul for life}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 1. - The French people appoint, and the Senate proclaims Napoleon Bonaparte First Consul for life.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 2. - A statue of Peace, holding in one hand the laurel of Victory, and in the other the decree of the Senate, will attest to posterity the recognition of the Nation.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 3. - The Senate will bring to the First Consul the expression of the confidence, the love and the admiration of the French people.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{{\*\bkmkstart senatus_consulte_organique_de_la_constitution_du_16_thermidor_an_x_4_aout_1802}{\*\bkmkend senatus_consulte_organique_de_la_constitution_du_16_thermidor_an_x_4_aout_1802}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
S\u233\'3fnatus-consulte organic de la Constitution of 16 Thermidor year X (August 4, 1802)}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{{\*\bkmkstart titre_i}{\*\bkmkend titre_i}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
Title I}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 1. - Each jurisdiction of the justice of the peace has a cantonal assembly.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 2. - Each municipal district or sub-prefecture district has a district electoral college.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 3. - Each department has a department electoral college.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{{\*\bkmkstart titre_ii_des_assemblees_de_canton}{\*\bkmkend titre_ii_des_assemblees_de_canton}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
Title II - Canton assemblies}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 4. - The cantonal assembly is made up of all citizens domiciled in the canton, and who are registered there on the municipal district list.\~- From the time when, under the terms of the Constitution, the municipal lists must be renewed, the canton assembly will be made up of all citizens domiciled in the canton, and who enjoy the rights of citizens there.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 5. - The First Consul appoints the president of the canton assembly;\~- His functions last five years: he can be reappointed indefinitely.\~- He is assisted by four tellers, two of whom are the oldest, and the other two the most taxed of citizens entitled to vote in the canton assembly.\~- The chairman and the four tellers appoint the secretary.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 6. - The canton assembly is divided into sections to carry out the operations which belong to it.\~- During the first convocation of each assembly, the organization and the forms will be determined by a regulation emanating from the government.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 7. - The president of the canton assembly appoints the presidents of the sections.\~- Their functions end with each sectional assembly.\~- They are each assisted by two tellers, one of whom is the oldest, and the other the most taxed of the citizens entitled to vote in the section.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 8. - The cantonal assembly appoints two citizens from whom the First Consul chooses the cantonal justice of the peace.\~- It also designates two citizens for each vacant place of deputy justice of the peace.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 9. - Justices of the peace and their substitutes are appointed for ten years.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 10. - In towns of five thousand souls, the canton assembly presents two citizens for each of the places of the municipal council.\~In cities where there will be several justices of the peace or several canton assemblies, each assembly will similarly present two citizens for each place of the municipal council.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 11. - The members of the municipal councils are taken by each canton assembly, from the list of the hundred most taxed in the canton.\~This list will be drawn up and printed by order of the prefect.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 12. - The municipal councils are renewed every ten years by half.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 13. - The First Consul chooses the mayors and deputies in the municipal councils;\~they are five years in place: they can be reappointed.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 14. - The canton assembly appoints to the district electoral college the number of members which is assigned to it, by reason of the number of citizens of which it is composed.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 15. - It appoints to the electoral college of the department, on a list which will be discussed below, the number of members which is attributed to it.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 16. - The members of the electoral colleges must be domiciled in the respective districts and departments.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 17. - The government convenes the assemblies of canton, fixes the time of their duration and the object of their meeting.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{{\*\bkmkstart titre_iii_des_colleges_electoraux}{\*\bkmkend titre_iii_des_colleges_electoraux}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
Title III - Electoral colleges}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 18. - The district electoral colleges have one member for every five hundred inhabitants domiciled in the district.\~- The number of members may not however exceed two hundred, nor be below one hundred and twenty.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 19. - The electoral colleges of the department have one member per thousand inhabitants domiciled in the department;\~and yet these members cannot exceed three hundred, nor be below two hundred.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 20. - The members of the electoral colleges are for life.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 21. - If a member of an electoral college is denounced to the government, as having allowed himself some act contrary to honor or to the country, the government invites the college to express its wish: three quarters of the votes are required. voice to make the denounced member lose his place in the college.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 22. - One loses his place in the electoral colleges for the same causes which make lose the right of citizen.\~- We also lose it, when, without legitimate hindrance, we have not attended three successive meetings.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 23. - The First Consul appoints the presidents of the electoral colleges at each session.\~- The president alone has the police of the electoral college, when it is assembled.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 24. - The electoral colleges appoint, at each session, two tellers and a secretary.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 25. - To achieve the formation of the electoral colleges of the department, it will be drawn up in each department, under the orders of the Minister of Finance, a list of the six hundred citizens most taxed in the roles of land, movable and sumptuary contributions, and to the role of patents.\~- One adds to the sum of the contribution, in the domicile of the department, that which one can justify paying in the other parts of the territory of France and its colonies.\~- This list will be printed.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 26. - The canton assembly will take from this list the members it will have to appoint to the electoral college of the department.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 27. - The First Consul may add to the district electoral colleges ten members taken from among the citizens belonging to the Legion of Honor, or who have rendered services.\~- He can add to each electoral college of the department twenty citizens, including ten taken from among the thirty most taxed in the department, and the ten others, either among the members of the Legion of Honor, or among the citizens who have rendered services.\~He is not subject, for these appointments, to determined periods.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 28. - The district electoral colleges present to the First Consul two citizens domiciled in the district, for each vacant place in the district council.\~- At least one of these citizens must be taken from outside the electoral college which designates him.\~- The district councils are renewed by thirds every five years.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 29. - The district electoral colleges present, at each meeting, two citizens to be part of the list from which the members of the Tribunate must be chosen.\~- At least one of these citizens must necessarily be taken from outside the college which presents it.\~- Both can be taken out of the department.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 30. - The electoral colleges of the department present to the First Consul two citizens domiciled in the department for each vacant place in the general council of the department.\~- At least one of these citizens must necessarily be taken from outside the electoral college which presents it.\~- Departmental general councils are renewed by thirds every five years.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 31. - The departmental electoral colleges present, at each meeting, two citizens to form the list on which the members of the Senate are appointed.\~- At least one must necessarily be taken outside the college which presents it, and both can be taken outside the department.\~- They must have the age and the qualities required by the Constitution.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 32. - The electoral colleges of the department and of the district each present two citizens domiciled in the department, to form the list on which the members of the deputation to the legislative body must be appointed.\~- One of these citizens must necessarily be taken from outside the college which presents him.\~- There must be three times as many different candidates on the list formed by the meeting of the presentations of the electoral colleges of the department and the district, as there are vacant places.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 33. - One can be member of a council of commune and of an electoral college of district or of department.\~- You cannot be a member of a district college and a departmental college at the same time.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 34. - Members of the Legislative Body and the Tribunate may not attend the sessions of the electoral college of which they will be part.\~All other public officials have the right to attend and vote.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 35. - No canton assembly shall proceed with the nomination of the places which belong to it in an electoral college, unless these places are reduced to two-thirds.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 36. - The electoral colleges do not meet except by virtue of an act of convocation emanating from the government, and in the place which is assigned to them.\~- They can only take care of the operations for which they are convened, nor continue their meetings beyond the term fixed by the act of convocation.\~- If they go outside these limits, the government has the right to dissolve them.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 37. - The electoral colleges can neither directly nor indirectly, under any pretext that it is, correspond between them.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 38. - The dissolution of an electoral body brings about the renewal of all its members.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{{\*\bkmkstart titre_iv_des_consuls}{\*\bkmkend titre_iv_des_consuls}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
Title IV - Consuls}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 39. - The consuls are for life: - They are members of the Senate, and the president.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 40. - The second and the third consuls are appointed by the Senate, on the presentation of the first.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 41. - For this purpose, when one of the two places becomes vacant, the First Consul presents to the Senate a first subject;\~if he is not named, he presents a second;\~if the second is not accepted, he presents a third which is necessarily named.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 42. - When the First Consul deems it appropriate, he presents a citizen to succeed him after his death, in the forms indicated by the preceding article.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 43. - The citizen appointed to succeed the First Consul, takes an oath to the Republic, in the hands of the First Consul, assisted by the Second and Third Consuls, in the presence of the Senate, the Ministers, the Council of State, the Legislative Body , the Tribunate, the Court of Cassation, archbishops, bishops, presidents of courts of appeal, presidents of electoral colleges, presidents of cantonal assemblies, senior officers of the Legion of Honor, and mayors of twenty-four main cities of the Republic.\~- The Secretary of State draws up the minutes of the taking of the oath.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 44. - The oath reads as follows: - "I swear to uphold the Constitution, to respect the freedom of conscience, to oppose the return of feudal institutions, never to wage war except for the defense and glory of the Republic, and to use the power with which I shall be invested only for the happiness of the people, from whom and for whom I have received it.\~"}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 45. - The oath taken, it sits in the Senate, immediately after the third consul.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 46. - The First Consul can deposit in the archives of the government his wish on the nomination of his successor, to be presented to the Senate after his death.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 47. - In this case, he calls the second and the third consuls, the ministers, and the presidents of the sections of the Council of State.\~- In their presence, he gives the Secretary of State the paper sealed with his seal, in which his wish is recorded.\~This paper is subscribed by all those who are present at the act.\~- The Secretary of State deposits it in the archives of the government, in the presence of the ministers and the presidents of the sections of the Council of State.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 48. - The First Consul may withdraw this deposit by observing the formalities prescribed in the preceding article.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 49. - After the death of the First Consul, if his wish has remained deposited, the paper which contains it is withdrawn from the government archives by the Secretary of State, in the presence of the ministers and the presidents of the sections of the Council of State .\~Its integrity and identity are recognized in the presence of the second and third consuls.\~It is sent to the Senate by a message from the government, with the dispatch of the minutes which have established its deposit, identity and integrity.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 50. - If the subject presented by the First Consul is not appointed, the second and the third consuls each present one: in the event of non-appointment, they each present another, and one of the two is necessarily named.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 51. - If the First Consul has left no presentation, the Second and Third Consuls make their presentations separately;\~a first, a second;\~and if neither has obtained a nomination, a third.\~The Senate necessarily appoints on the third.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 52. - In all cases, the presentations and the appointment must be completed within twenty-four hours of the death of the First Consul.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 53. - The law fixes for the life of each First Consul the state of the expenses of the government.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{{\*\bkmkstart titre_v_du_senat}{\*\bkmkend titre_v_du_senat}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
Title V - Of the Senate}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 54. - The Senate regulates by an organic senate-consult,\line - 1 \u176\'b0 The constitution of the colonies;\line - 2 \u176\'b0 Anything that has not been provided for by the Constitution, and which is necessary for its operation;\line - 3 \u176\'b0 It explains the articles of the Constitution which give rise to different interpretations.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 55. - The Senate, by acts entitled senatus-consultes,\line - 1 \u176\'b0 Suspends for five years the functions of jurors in the departments where this measure is necessary;\line - 2 \u176\'b0 Declare, when circumstances require, departments outside the Constitution;\line - 3 \u176\'b0 Determines the time within which individuals arrested under article 46 of the Constitution must be brought before the courts, if they have not been brought within ten days of their arrest;\line - 4 \u176\'b0 Annuls the judgments of the courts, when they are prejudicial to the security of the State;\line - 5 \u176\'b0 Dissolves the Legislative Body and the Tribunate;\line - 6 \u176\'b0 Name the consuls.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 56. - The organic senatus-consulta and the senatus-consulta are deliberated by the Senate, on the initiative of the government.\~- A simple majority is sufficient for the senatus-consulta;\~two-thirds of the votes of the members present are needed for an organic senatus-consultum.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 57. - The projects of senatus-consulta taken in consequence of articles 54 and 55, are discussed in a private council, composed of the consuls, two ministers, two senators, two councilors of state, and two senior officers of the Legion of Honor.\~- The First Consul designates, at each meeting, the members who must make up the Privy Council.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 58. - The First Consul ratifies the treaties of peace and alliance, after having taken the advice of the Privy Council.\~- Before promulgating them, he informs the Senate of them.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 59. - The act of appointment of a member of the Legislative Body, the Tribunate and the Court of Cassation, is called\~}{\cs15\i\ai\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Order}{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
\~.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 60. - The acts of the Senate relating to its police and its internal administration are called\~}{\cs15\i\ai\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Deliberations}{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
\~.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 61. - During the year XI, fourteen citizens will be appointed to complete the number of eighty senators, determined by article 15 of the Constitution.\~- This nomination will be made by the Senate, on the presentation of the First Consul, who, for this presentation, and for the subsequent presentations in the number of eighty, takes three subjects from the list of citizens designated by the electoral colleges.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 62. - The members of the Grand Council of the Legion of Honor are members of the Senate, whatever their age.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 63. - The First Consul can, moreover, appoint to the Senate, without preliminary presentation by the electoral colleges of department, citizens distinguished by their services and their talents, provided nevertheless that they will have the age required by the Constitution , and that the number of senators may not, in any case, exceed one hundred and twenty.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 64. - Senators may be consuls, ministers, members of the Legion of Honor, inspectors of public education, and employed in extraordinary and temporary missions.\~- The Senate appoints, each year, two of its members to fulfill the functions of secretaries.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 65. - The ministers sit in the Senate, but without voting rights, if they are not senators.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{{\*\bkmkstart titre_vi_des_conseillers_detat}{\*\bkmkend titre_vi_des_conseillers_detat}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
Title VI - Councilors of State}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 66. The Councilors of State will never exceed the number of fifty.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 67. - The Council of State is divided into sections.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 68. - The ministers have rank, sitting and voting rights in the Council of State.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{{\*\bkmkstart titre_vii_du_corps_legislatif}{\*\bkmkend titre_vii_du_corps_legislatif}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
Title VII - Of the legislative body}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 69. - Each department will have in the legislative body a number of members proportional to the extent of its population, in accordance with the attached table.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 70. All the members of the Legislative Body belonging to the same deputation are appointed at the same time.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 71. - The departments of the Republic are divided into five series, in accordance with the attached table.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 72. - The current deputies are classified in the five series.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 73. - They will be renewed in the year to which will belong the series in which the department to which they will have been attached will be placed.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 74. - Nevertheless the deputies who were appointed in year X, will complete their five years.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 75. - The government convenes, adjourns and prorogues the legislative body}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{{\*\bkmkstart titre_viii_du_tribunat}{\*\bkmkend titre_viii_du_tribunat}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
Title VIII - Of the Tribunate}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 76. - From the year XIII, the Tribunate will be reduced to fifty members.\~- Half of the fifty will be released every three years.\~Until this reduction, outgoing members will not be replaced.\~- The Tribunate is divided into sections.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 77. - The Legislative Body and the Tribunate are renewed in all their members when the Senate has pronounced their dissolution.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{{\*\bkmkstart titre_ix_de_la_justice_et_des_tribunaux}{\*\bkmkend titre_ix_de_la_justice_et_des_tribunaux}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
Title IX - Justice and courts}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 78. - There is a Grand Judge Minister of Justice.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 79. - He has a distinguished place in the Senate and the Council of State.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 8o.\~- He presides over the Court of Cassation and the Courts of Appeal, when the Government deems it appropriate}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 8I.\~- He has over the tribunals, the justices of the peace and the members who compose them, the right to supervise them, and to take them back.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 82. - The Court of Cassation, chaired by it, has the right of censure and discipline over the courts of appeal and the criminal courts;\~he may, for serious cause, suspend the judges from their functions, or summon them to the grand-judge, to give an account of their conduct.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 83. - The courts of appeal have the right of supervision over the civil courts within their jurisdiction, and the civil courts over the Justices of the Peace of their district.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 84. - The government commissioner to the Court of Cassation supervises the commissioners to the courts of appeal and the criminal courts.\~- The commissioners of the courts of appeal supervise the commissioners of the civil courts.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 85. - The members of the Court of Cassation are appointed by the Senate, on the presentation of the First Consul.\~- The First Consul presents three subjects for each vacant place.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb200\sa120\keepn\b\dbch\af8\dbch\af9\afs36\ab\loch\f3\fs36\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{{\*\bkmkstart titre_x_droit_de_faire_grace}{\*\bkmkend titre_x_droit_de_faire_grace}\scaps0\caps0\cf17\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5\hich\af5
Title X - Right to pardon}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\sl456\slmult1\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb300\sa300{\scaps0\caps0\cf18\expnd0\expndtw0\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f6\hich\af6
Article 86. - The First Consul has the right to pardon.\~- He exercises it after having heard, in a private council, the grand-judge, two ministers, two senators, two councilors of state and two judges of the Court of Cassation.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af9\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par }