{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset204 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset204 Arial;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset204 Microsoft YaHei;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset204 Arial;}{\f7\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\sb240\sa120\keepn\dbch\af5\dbch\af6\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 \u1047\'c7\u1072\'e0\u1075\'e3\u1086\'ee\u1083\'eb\u1086\'ee\u1074\'e2\u1086\'ee\u1082\'ea;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140 \u1054\'ce\u1089\'f1\u1085\'ed\u1086\'ee\u1074\'e2\u1085\'ed\u1086\'ee\u1081\'e9 \u1090\'f2\u1077\'e5\u1082\'ea\u1089\'f1\u1090\'f2;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\dbch\af7 \u1057\'d1\u1087\'ef\u1080\'e8\u1089\'f1\u1086\'ee\u1082\'ea;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af7\afs24\ai\fs24 \u1053\'cd\u1072\'e0\u1079\'e7\u1074\'e2\u1072\'e0\u1085\'ed\u1080\'e8\u1077\'e5;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af7 \u1059\'d3\u1082\'ea\u1072\'e0\u1079\'e7\u1072\'e0\u1090\'f2\u1077\'e5\u1083\'eb\u1100\'fc;}
}{\*\generator Free_File_Viewers/6.2.3.2$Windows_x86 LibreOffice_project/}{\info{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr2021\mo8\dy25\hr18\min52}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}}{\*\userprops}\deftab709
\viewscale100
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 \u1041\'3f\u1072\'3f\u1079\'3f\u1086\'3f\u1074\'3f\u1099\'3f\u1081\'3f;}}
\formshade\paperh16838\paperw11906\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
{\*\ftnsep\chftnsep}\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Preamble.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
WHEREAS, in accordance with the requirements of the time, certain articles of the Regulations for the election of Members to the National Consultative Assembly were seen to need alteration, agreeably to the Command, irresistible as Fate, of His Most Sacred Royal and Imperial Majesty (may God immortalize his dominion and rule) a Commission was formed of well-wishers to the Nation in co-operation with members of the [former] National Assembly, comprising twenty members and deciding by a majority of votes, to construct a new Electoral Law.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
And whereas attention had been directed to four articles in the Fundamental Law having reference to the matter of the Elections, the modification of which articles was inconsistent with the principles above-mentioned, in order to remove this difficulty the above-mentioned Commission, with the concurrence of the well-wishers of the more important provinces of Persia, submitted the more important articles of the Electoral Law which it had drawn up to the chief centers of the kingdom, and delegated their powers in this matter to the \u193\'3fzarb\u225\'3fyj\u225\'3fn centre. The most competent members of that important centre approved the modification of the four articles above-mentioned, and further added remarks on other material points. Thereafter, having due regard to the observations of the \u193\'3fzarb\u225\'3fyj\u225\'3fn centre, this Electoral Law was written and codified, subject to this provision, that after the National Assembly shall have been auspiciously opened, it shall, conformably to the option assigned to it by the Fundamental Laws, exercise its discretion as to the confirmation, rejection or emendation of each article of the Electoral Law.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
In the Name of God, the Merciful, the Forgiving.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Section I.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The number of the National Representatives, and their division according to Provinces and Departments.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 1. The number of the National Representatives for the National Consultative Assembly is fixed at one hundred and twenty.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 2. The assignment of the National Representatives proportionally to the estimated population of the provinces and the importance of the locality is in accordance with the explanatory table appended to the Electoral Law.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 3. Since, by reason of the absence of the necessary appliances, the places of election will be only in the large cities and smaller towns, no mention has been made in this Electoral Law of most of the districts and tribes whereof the centre of government lacks the qualities of a town. Yet notwithstanding this, the inhabitants of such districts and tribal areas in each department, subject to their possessing the specified qualifications, are entitled to proceed to one of the towns of that department and take part in the elections.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Section II.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Qualifications of Electors.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 4. The electors shall be persons possessing the following qualifications: i. They must be Persian subjects. ii. They must be at least twenty years of age. iii. They must be locally known, and, if not natives of or settlers in the district, they must have been domiciled in the electoral centre or in its dependencies for at least six months before the election. iv. They must possess property to the extent of 250 t\u250\'3fm\u225\'3fns (\u163\'3f50) at least, or must pay at least 10 t\u250\'3fm\u225\'3fns (\u163\'3f2) in taxes, or must be in receipt of a yearly income or earnings amounting to at least 50 t\u250\'3fm\u225\'3fns (\u163\'3f10).}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 5. The following are absolutely disqualified from electoral functions: i. Women. ii. Persons not of full understanding, or such as are legally in the hands of guardians. iii. Foreign subjects. iv. Persons whose apostasy from the orthodox religion of Isl\u225\'3fm has been established in the presence of a duly qualified representative of the Holy Law. v. Persons under twenty years of age. vi. Fraudulent bankrupts. vii. Persons who have been guilty of murder or theft, criminals liable to punishment according to the laws of Isl\u225\'3fm, and persons suspected of murder, theft and the like who have not succeeded in legally establishing their innocence. viii. Members of the naval and military forces actually engaged in service.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 6. Persons provisionally deprived of electoral rights are: i. Governors and Assistant-governors within their own command and jurisdiction. ii. Employees of the gendarmerie and police forces within the district of their employment.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Section III.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Qualifications of Candidates for Election.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 7. Candidates for Election must possess the following qualities and status: i. They must profess the Faith of His Holiness Muhammad the son of 'Abdu'll\u225\'3fh, unless they represent the Christian, Zoroastrian, or Jewish communities, in which case also they must be sound in their respective beliefs. ii. They must be Persian subjects. iii. They must at least be able to read and write Persian to an adequate degree. iv. They must be locally known. v. They must possess some knowledge of affairs of State. vi. They must have the reputation of being trustworthy and upright. vii. Their age must not fall short of thirty, nor exceed seventy.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 8. Persons disqualified for election are: i. Princes in the first degree, that is to say the sons, brothers, and paternal uncles of the King. ii. Women. iii. Foreign subjects. iv. Members of the military and naval forces actually in service. v. Persons employed in the service of the State, unless they resign their offices during the period for which they act as representatives. vi. Fraudulent bankrupts. vii. Persons who have committed murder or theft, and other criminals deserving punishment according to the Law of Isl\u225\'3fm, as well as persons reputed guilty of murder, theft, etc., who have not legally established their innocence. viii. Persons whose age falls short of thirty or exceeds seventy years. ix. Persons whose apostasy from the orthodox faith of Isl\u225\'3fm shall have been established in the presence of a duly qualified Ecclesiastical Judge, and those who live in open sin.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Section IV.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Formation of the Council of Supervision.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 9. In every electoral centre there shall be temporarily formed a committee named the "Council of Supervision" (Anjuman-i-Na}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
z\u225\'3frat) which shall superintend and be responsible for the correctness of the Elections.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 10. In places where, in conformity with the Law, there exists a Provincial or Departmental Council, this Council of Supervision shall consist of three members of such Provincial or Departmental Council and four persons generally respected in the locality, under the presidency of the Governor. These four persons shall be appointed, subject to the approval of the Governor, by the Provincial or Departmental Council from outside its members.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 11. In places where no Provincial or Departmental Council has yet been formed in conformity with the Law, the Council of Super vision shall consist of the Governor, the acting governor (K\u225\'3fr-guz\u225\'3fr), one well-known local ecclesiastical authority, one Prince, two notables, and two merchants of repute. (In any place where one of the persons above-mentioned is not to be found, one of the notables or merchants shall be elected in his place.)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 12. In large towns the Council of Supervision may form separate branches in each quarter, consisting of the Kad-khud\u225\'3f and five trustworthy inhabitants of the quarter, to give out the voting papers.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 13. The Council of Supervision shall from its own members elect one or two secretaries.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 14. The Council of Supervision shall be dissolved one week after the conclusion of the elections.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Section V.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Method of Election.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 15. The elections throughout the whole of Persia shall be in two degrees.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Definition (i). \u8212\'97 What is meant by election in two degrees is that first of all in the quarters of one city, or in the towns of one Electoral Division they shall elect a fixed number [of persons] who shall be called "the Elected." After this the persons thus elected in the first degree shall meet in the centre of the Electoral Division and shall in turn elect from amongst themselves the requisite number. The persons thus elected in the second degree shall be the representatives.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Definition (ii). \u8212\'97 What is meant by an Electoral Division is those portions of the Kingdom which, according to the schedule set forth in these Regulations, conjointly elect one or more persons and send them directly as Members to the National Consultative Assembly, irrespective of whether such division be under one or several governments. The centre of the division is that point where the elections in the second degree of the division take place.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 16. The elections in the first and second degrees will in general be multiple elections, save in places which, according to the schedule of the Regulations, have only the right to elect one person. In such cases single election will be practiced.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Definition. \u8212\'97 What is meant by "multiple elections" is that each of the electors records on his voting paper the names of persons corresponding in number with the total number of members [assigned for the representation of that place]. What is meant by "single elections" is that each one of the electors writes on his voting paper the name of one person only.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 17. Elections in the first degree shall be by relative majority, and elections in the second degree by absolute majority.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Definition. \u8212\'97 What is meant by "absolute majority" is that more than half the voters vote for one person.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 18. In the elections in the first degree those persons who obtain an absolute majority relatively to the total number of electors in that electoral district are dispensed from election in the second degree, and are accepted as members of the National Consultative Assembly.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 19. In the elections in the second degree if, on the first and second occasions, an absolute majority be not obtained for any person, on the third occasion that person shall be deemed elected on his relative majority.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 20. In case of an equality of votes between two or more persons, if the election of one of them be necessary, that one shall be determined by vote.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 21. In elections of the first degree, the number of those elected in each Electoral Division shall be three times the number of the representatives fixed for the Division according to Article 2.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 22. In the Electoral Division of }{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Tihr\u225\'3fn the elections in the first degree shall be conducted from five quarters, each of which is under the control of a Kad-khud\u225\'3f, according to such apportionment as shall be determined by the Council of Supervision.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 23. In the Electoral Divisions of the Provinces and Departments the elections of the first degree shall be conducted by relative majority in all the towns of each Division. Thereafter those elected in the first degree shall assemble at such time as the Central Council of Supervision shall determine at the Divisional Centre, and shall collectively choose, by absolute majority, representatives from amongst their number, according to the number assigned in conformity with Article 2 to that Division.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 24. The five principal nomad tribes, namely the Sh\u225\'3fh-savans of \u193\'3fzarb\u225\'3fyj\u225\'3fn, the Bakhtiy\u225\'3fr\u237\'3fs, the Qashq\u225\'3f'\u237\'3fs, the "Five Tribes" of F\u225\'3frs, and the Turkmans, shall each send directly one representative to be a member of the National Consultative Assembly. The tribal elections also shall be in two degrees, but the Ministry of the Interior shall determine the number of those elected in the first degree by each tribe, and the Electoral Centre of the second degree. In this case the elections in the Second Degree shall be by votes.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 25. In case those persons elected by the component towns shall not present themselves at the Centre of that Division at the time fixed for their appearance by the Central Council of Supervision, the right of election shall lapse in their case for that [electoral] cycle, and those who present themselves at the appointed time shall choose the representatives of that Division from amongst their number.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 26. No one of the electors has the right to vote more than once, save in cases where a new election shall be necessary.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 27. In the first degree the electors are not absolutely compelled to elect from those resident in their own quarter.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Section VI.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Issue of the voting papers to determine the Electors.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 28. The Council of Supervision shall prepare and publish from five to fifteen days before the day fixed for the election, according to the importance of the place, a proclamation.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 29. The above-mentioned proclamation shall include the following matters: i. The qualifications of the electors and the elected. ii. The place and times at which the Council of Supervision, or [local] branch thereof, will distribute the voting papers. iii. The place and times at which the Council of Supervision will be prepared to receive the votes. iv. The number of representatives whom the voters are entitled to choose.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 30. If those persons who possess the qualifications of electors do not claim their voting papers within the period fixed by the Council of Supervision for claiming them, their right of election for that cycle lapses.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 31. The voting paper given to each of the electors shall contain the following particulars: i. Number and date. ii. Name of the holder and his father. iii. Occupation and abode. iv. Time and place at which the holder must present himself to record his vote. v. Hour of opening and closing of the poll. vi. Seals or signatures of the members of the Council of Supervision.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 32. The Council of Supervision, or the [local] branch thereof, shall record in the special register [set apart for that purpose] all the voting papers issued by it in order of their numbers.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Section VII.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Concerning the taking and counting of the votes, and the determination of those elected.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 33. The period for taking the votes shall be from one to three days, according to the importance of the place, as shall be determined by the Council of Supervision.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 34. After the lapse of the period fixed by the Council of Supervision for taking the votes, no voting paper shall be received from anyone.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 35. The voting must be secret, and therefore the voter, before entering the polling booth, must write the name or names of the candidate or candidates for whom he votes, without any further indication, on a piece of white paper, which he must roll up and bring with him.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 36. After the arrival of the members of the Council of Supervision and the opening of the poll at such time as has been announced, the President of the Council of Supervision, before beginning to take the votes, shall open the box appointed for receiving the votes in the presence of the members of the Council and such of the voters as may be present, and shall show that it is empty.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 37. Each of the voters on arriving at the polling booth shall quietly give his voting paper to one of the members [of the Council of Supervision] designated for this purpose.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 38. The receiver of the voting paper shall read out its number aloud, in order that the Secretary of the Council may find and mark it off in the register for recording votes. After thus marking off the number, the receiver shall cancel that voting paper and restore it to its owner, and shall place his vote, without looking at it, in the ballot box. In case of circumstances which shall necessitate a fresh election, voters shall keep their cancelled voting papers.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 39. Voters after recording their votes and receiving back their cancelled voting paper shall, in case of over-crowding, disorder or confusion [in the polling booth], withdraw, at the command of the President, from the polling booth.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 40. In places where the election is not concluded in one day, all the members [of the Council of Supervision] shall, at the close of that day's session, seal up the ballot box with all necessary precautions, and on the next day the same members shall reopen it.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 41. After the announcement of the conclusion of the poll, the President of the Council [of Supervision] shall empty the ballot box in the presence of the other members [of the Council] and of those present, and shall order the votes to be counted.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 42. One of the members [of the Council] shall count the voting papers and compare their numbers with the list of voters the number of whose voting papers has been marked off in the register of votes. In case of any excess of voting papers, a deduction shall be made from the total corresponding to this excess, which shall thus be annulled, and the result shall be recorded in the report of the Council.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 43. One of the members shall read out the voting papers aloud one by one, while another member hands them to him, and three others record on a large sheet of paper the names in the order in which they are read out.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 44. In case more or fewer than the allotted number of names shall have been written on the voting papers, the electoral act shall not be considered null and void. In the former case the superfluous names shall be omitted at the end [of the list or the voting paper].}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 45. Such voting papers as shall be blank or illegible, or which do not clearly specify the candidate voted for, or which are signed by the voter, or which consist of more than one paper, shall not be counted, but shall be attached just as they are to the Report of the Council.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 46. Immediately after the counting and calculation of the votes, the President shall announce the result aloud and destroy the voting papers, except such as are mentioned in the preceding article, which are to be attached to the Report of the Council.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 47. The Secretary shall write out three copies of the Report of the polling, and cause them to be signed by the members of the Council of Supervision. Of these one copy shall be sent to the Government, another copy through the Government to the National Consultative Assembly, and a third copy, together with the register recording the votes, to the Provincial or Departmental Council of the centre of that Electoral District.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 48. Persons not provided with voting papers have no right to enter the polling booth.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 49. It is strictly forbidden that any one carrying arms should enter the polling booth.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 50. After the conclusion of the elections, the names of those elected in the first and second degree shall be announced in the newspapers by the local governor.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 51. Candidates elected in the smaller towns must be provided with a certificate of election (i'tib\u225\'3fr-n\u225\'3fma) signed by the local Council of Supervision, and must show it to the central Council of Supervision. So likewise those representatives who are elected in the centre of the Electoral District as Members of the National Consultative Assembly must be provided with a certificate of election signed by the Central Council of Supervision, which they must hand over to the Registry of the National Consultative Assembly.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Section VIII.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
On complaints in reference to the Elections.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 52. If at the time of the elections any voter or candidate has any complaint or objection to make in regard to the election, this shall not hinder the completion of the election, but an account of such complaint must be inserted in the Report of the Polls.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 53. Complaints and objections concerning the elections must be made known to the Council of Supervision within a week after the conclusion of the elections, so that the Council may investigate and decide them, and append its conclusion to the Report of the Polls.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 54. If those who have complaints to make about the elections are not satisfied with the decision of the Council of Supervision, they may submit their complaints to the National Consultative Assembly within the first month after the opening of that Assembly, and the decision of the Assembly shall be final. (Complaints referring to elections taking place after the opening of the National Consultative Assembly must reach the Assembly within the first month after such election has taken place.)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 55. Should any candidate or representative be elected by means of bribes or threats, the election of such candidate or representative shall, after the charge has been proved to the Council of Supervision or the National Consultative Assembly, be null and void, and he shall further be subject to such penalties as the Law shall determine in his case.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 56. Those persons who have the right to vote are entitled to raise objections to the elections.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Section IX.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
On various matters.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 57. As soon as half the representatives of the people plus one, that is to say 61 [successful candidates], shall reach }{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Tihr\u225\'3fn, the National Assembly shall be opened, and the decision of a majority of them shall be valid and effective.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 58. The beginning of a [new] electoral period shall be two years after the day on which the National Consultative Assembly shall be opened.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 59. At the conclusion of such period of two years the Representatives must be elected again. Constituents have the right to re-elect any Representative whom they wish.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 60. The confirmation of Members of the National Consultative Assembly depends on the designation and approval of that Assembly.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 61. The travelling expenses of those elected in the first and second degree, both for going and returning, shall be paid by the Government of each place, with the concurrence of the Council of Supervision, at the rate of five qr\u225\'3fns a parasang, in addition to five t\u250\'3fm\u225\'3fns [50 qr\u225\'3fns, or about \u163\'3f1] for the expenses of remaining five days in the District Centre.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 62. If a Member of the National Consultative Assembly shall resign or die, and if more than three months remain before the conclusion of the Electoral Period, the National Assembly shall, by an absolute majority, elect another to take his place.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ART. 63. In }{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Tihr\u225\'3fn ten days after these Regulations have received the sanction of the Imperial Autograph, and in the Provinces five days after the arrival of the said Regulations, the Council of Supervision shall be constituted and the elections shall begin.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(Signatures of the Members of the Commission for drafting the Electoral Regulations) \u8212\'97}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Farm\u225\'3fn-farma.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mush\u237\'3fru'd-Dawla.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mu'tamanu'l-Mulk.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mustawfi'l-Mam\u225\'3flik.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
San\u237\'3f'u'd-Dawla.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mukhbiru'l-Mulk.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mu'\u237\'3fnu'd-Dawla.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Muhandisu'l-Mam\u225\'3flik.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mustash\u225\'3fru'd-Dawla.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
H\u225\'3fjji Sayyid Na}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
sru'll\u225\'3fh.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Asadu'll\u225\'3fh M\u237\'3frz\u225\'3f.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Husayn-qul\u237\'3f Kh\u225\'3fn Naww\u225\'3fb.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mustash\u225\'3fru's-Sul}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
t\u225\'3fn.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
K\u225\'3fshifu's-Sal}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
tana.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Na}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
zmu'd-Dawla.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Am\u237\'3fn-i-Darb\u225\'3fr.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[Here follows the table of the Electoral Districts and their representation. This table is arranged in six columns, showing (i) the names of the Electoral Districts; (ii) the Centre of each District; (iii) the number of Representatives which each is entitled to send to the National Assembly; (iv) the number of Candidates elected "in the first degree," which is always (except in the case of the nomad tribes, where it is not specified, being left to the determination of the Minister of the Interior) thrice as many as the number of Representatives finally chosen; (v) the polling places of elections in the first degree in each Electoral District; and (vi) the number of persons elected in the first degree in each, or in other words the number of members contributed by each to the Electoral College of the District, which in turn chooses one-third of its number as Representatives in the National Assembly. These particulars, which I have not thought it necessary to preserve in tabular form, are as follows:]}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Tihr\u225\'3fn and 'Dependencies (centre, }{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Tihr\u225\'3fn) has 5 polling places, viz. the Dawlat, Sanglach and Shahr-i-Naw, '\u218\'3fd-l\u225\'3fj\u225\'3fn, Ch\u225\'3fla-mayd\u225\'3fn and B\u225\'3fz\u225\'3fr quarters, which together elect 45 Representatives "in the first degree," of whom 15 (one-third) finally represent the district in the National Assembly. The apportionment of these 45 amongst the five parishes or quarters is not specified, being left to the determination of the Council of Supervision.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
\u193\'3fzarb\u225\'3fyj\u225\'3fn (centre, Tabr\u237\'3fz) has 19 polling places, viz. Tabr\u237\'3fz (26), Urmiya (5), Kh\u250\'3fy (4), D\u237\'3flmaq\u225\'3fn (1), M\u225\'3fk\u250\'3f (1), Mar\u225\'3fgha (2), B\u237\'3fn\u225\'3fb (1), May\u225\'3fn-i-D\u250\'3f-\u193\'3fb (1), S\u225\'3fwujbul\u225\'3fgh (2), Dihkhw\u225\'3fraq\u225\'3fn (1), Marand (1), Ahar (2), A}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
rdab\u237\'3fl (4), Mishg\u237\'3fn (1), \u193\'3fst\u225\'3fr\u225\'3f (1), Khalkh\u225\'3fl (1), Sar\u225\'3fb (1), May\u225\'3fnaj (1), }{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
S\u225\'3f'in-Qal'a (1): total 57 Representatives "in the first degree," of whom 19 (one-third) finally represent the district in the National Assembly.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Sh\u225\'3fh-savan tribe sends one Representative to the Assembly. The remaining details are left to the decision of the Minister of the Interior.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Khur\u225\'3fs\u225\'3fn (centre, Mashhad) has 12 polling places, viz. Mashhad (12), Q\u250\'3fch\u225\'3fn (3), Bujn\u250\'3frd (2), Dara-Juz (1), J\u225\'3fm and B\u225\'3fkharz (1), N\u237\'3fsh\u225\'3fp\u250\'3fr (3), Sabzaw\u225\'3fr (4), Khw\u225\'3ff (1), Tursh\u237\'3fz (1), Turbat-i-}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Haydar\u237\'3f (3), T\u250\'3fn (1), Tabas (1): total, 33, of whom 11 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
S\u237\'3fst\u225\'3fn and Q\u225\'3f'in\u225\'3ft (centre, Birjand) has only 2 polling places, viz. Nu}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
srat-\u225\'3fb\u225\'3fd in S\u237\'3fst\u225\'3fn (1) and Birjand (2): total, 3, of whom one finally represents the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
F\u225\'3frs (centre, Sh\u237\'3fr\u225\'3fz) has 10 polling places, viz. Sh\u237\'3fr\u225\'3fz (10), K\u225\'3fzar\u250\'3fn (2), Bahbah\u225\'3fn (3), N\u237\'3fr\u237\'3fz (1), \u193\'3fb\u225\'3fda (1), L\u225\'3fr (3), Fas\u225\'3f (1), Jahrum (1), Galla-d\u225\'3fr (1), D\u225\'3fr\u225\'3fbjird (1): total, 24, of whom 8 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Qashq\u225\'3f'\u237\'3f tribe sends one Representative to the Assembly. The details are left to the Minister of the Interior.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Five Tribes (\u205\'3fl\u225\'3ft-i-khamsa) also send one Representative.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Gulf Port and Islands (Banddir u Jaz\u225\'3f'ir), with Bushire ( Ab\u250\'3f Shahr) for their centre, have 5 polling places, viz. Bushire (2), Bur\u225\'3fzj\u225\'3fn, Dasht\u237\'3f and Tangist\u225\'3fn (1), Bandar-i-'Abb\u225\'3fs (1), Bandar-i\u8208\'2d Khamfr and the Islands (1), and Bandar-i-Linga (1): total, 6, of whom 2 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Kirm\u225\'3fn (centre, Kirm\u225\'3fn) has 7 polling places, viz. Kirm\u225\'3fn (8), Rafsinj\u225\'3fn (2), Sa'\u237\'3fd-\u225\'3fb\u225\'3fd and S\u237\'3frj\u225\'3fn (1), Khab\u237\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
s (1), R\u225\'3fwar (1), Zarand (1), Aq}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
t\u225\'3f' wa Afsh\u225\'3f (1): total, 15, of whom 5 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Bal\u250\'3fchist\u225\'3fn, Bam and Narm\u225\'3fsh\u237\'3fr (centre, Bam) have only 2 polling places, Bam (2) and Bal\u250\'3fchist\u225\'3fn (1), and only one Member finally represents the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Astar\u225\'3fb\u225\'3fd (one polling place at Astarabad) elects 3 candidates, of whom one finally represents the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Turkmdn tribe sends one Representative to the Assembly.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Isfah\u225\'3fn (centre I}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
sfah\u225\'3fn) has 5 polling places, viz. I}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
sfah\u225\'3fn (5), Qumishah (1), Najaf-\u225\'3fb\u225\'3fd (1), Quhp\u225\'3fya (1), and Ardistan (1): total, 9, of whom 3 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Bakhtiy\u225\'3fr\u237\'3f tribe sends one Representative to the Assembly.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Bur\u250\'3fjird (one polling place at Bur\u250\'3fjird) elects 6 candidates, of whom 2 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Khamsa and }{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
T\u225\'3frum (centre, Zanj\u225\'3fn) have 3 polling places, viz. Zanj\u225\'3fn (4), Abhar (1) and }{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
T\u225\'3frum (1): total, 6, of whom 2 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
S\u225\'3fwa and Zarand (centre, S\u225\'3fwa) have only 2 polling places, viz. S\u225\'3fwa (2) and Zarand (1): total, 3, of whom one finally represents the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Sh\u225\'3fhr\u250\'3fd and Bis}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
t\u225\'3fm (centre, Sh\u225\'3fhr\u250\'3fd) have only two polling places, viz. Sh\u225\'3fhr\u250\'3fd (2) and Bist\u225\'3fm (1): total, 3, of whom one finally represents the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
'Ir\u225\'3fq (centre, Sul}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
t\u225\'3fn-\u225\'3fb\u225\'3fd) has 3 polling places, viz. Sul}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
t\u225\'3fn\u225\'3fb\u225\'3fd (4), \u193\'3fshtiy\u225\'3fn (1) and Tafrish (1): total, 6, of whom 2 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
'Arabist\u225\'3fn (centre, Sh\u250\'3fshtar), has 4 polling places, viz. Sh\u250\'3fshtar (2), Dizf\u250\'3fl (3), Mu}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
hammara wa 'Ash\u225\'3f'ir (3), Bandar-i-N\u225\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
sir\u237\'3f (1): total, 9, of whom 3 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
F\u237\'3fr\u250\'3fz-k\u250\'3fh (1) and Dam\u225\'3fwand (2): total, 3, of whom one finally represents the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Qazw\u237\'3fn (centre, Qazwin) has 4 polling places, viz. Qazw\u237\'3fn (3), }{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
T\u225\'3frum-i-Sufl\u225\'3f (1), Kharaq\u225\'3fn (1), and }{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
T\u225\'3flaq\u225\'3fn (1): total, 6, of whom 2 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Qum chooses 3 candidates, of whom one represents the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
K\u225\'3fsh\u225\'3fn (4), J\u250\'3fshq\u225\'3fn (1) and Na}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
tanz (1): total, 6, of whom 2 represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Kurdistdn (centre, Sinandij) has 5 polling places, viz. Sinandij (4), Saqaz (2), B\u225\'3fna (1), \u218\'3fr\u225\'3fm\u225\'3fn (1) and Mar\u237\'3fw\u225\'3fn (1): total, 9, of whom 3 represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Kirm\u225\'3fnsh\u225\'3fh\u225\'3fn (centre, Kirm\u225\'3fnsh\u225\'3fh) has 3 polling places, viz. Kirm\u225\'3fnsh\u225\'3fh (6), Sunqur (2) and Kang\u225\'3fwar (I): total, 9, of whom 3 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Garr\u250\'3fs (centre, B\u237\'3fj\u225\'3fr) elects 3 candidates, of whom one represents the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Gulp\u225\'3fyag\u225\'3fn (2), Khw\u225\'3fns\u225\'3fr (1), Kamra (1) and the Ma}{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
hall\u225\'3ft and other districts (2) elect 6 candidates, of whom 2 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
G\u237\'3fl\u225\'3fn and }{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Taw\u225\'3flish ("the }{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
T\u225\'3flishes": centre, Rasht) has 8 polling places, viz. Rasht (6), Anzal\u237\'3f (2), L\u225\'3fh\u237\'3fj\u225\'3fn (2), R\u250\'3fdb\u225\'3fr and Daylam\u225\'3fn (1), Langar\u250\'3fd (1), F\u250\'3fman (1), Gurg\u225\'3fn-r\u250\'3fd (1), and }{\rtlch \ltrch
\u1460\'3f}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
T\u225\'3flish and D\u250\'3fl\u225\'3fb (i): total, 15, of whom 5 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Lurist\u225\'3fn (centre, Khurram-\u225\'3fb\u225\'3fd) has two polling places, Khurram-\u225\'3fb\u225\'3fd (4) and Pusht-i-K\u250\'3fh (2): total, 6, of whom 2 represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
M\u225\'3fzandar\u225\'3fn, Tunk\u225\'3fbun and Saw\u225\'3fd-K\u250\'3fh (centre, S\u225\'3fr\u237\'3f), has 8 polling places, viz. S\u225\'3fr\u237\'3f (2), B\u225\'3frfur\u250\'3fsh (3), \u193\'3fmul (1), Tunk\u225\'3fbun (2), Saw\u225\'3fd-K\u250\'3fh (1), Ashraf (1), Mashhad-i-Sar (1), and N\u250\'3fr (1): total, 12, of whom 4 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mal\u225\'3fyir, Nih\u225\'3fwand and T\u250\'3fysirk\u225\'3fn (centre, Dawlat-\u225\'3fb\u225\'3fd) have 3 polling places, Dawlat-\u225\'3fb\u225\'3fd (3), Nih\u225\'3fwand (2) and T\u250\'3fysirk\u225\'3fn (1): total, 6, of whom 2 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hamaddn (5) and Asad-\u225\'3fb\u225\'3fd (1): total, 6, of whom 2 represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Yazd and its dependencies (centre, Yazd) has 5 polling places, viz. Yazd (4), N\u225\'3f'\u237\'3fn (2), Shahr-i-B\u225\'3fbak (1), Ardak\u225\'3fn (1) and 'Aqd\u225\'3f (1): total, 9, of whom 3 finally represent the district.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Finally the Armenians, "Chaldaeans" (i.e. Nestorian Christians), Zoroastrians and Jews have each one Representative.}
\par }