{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset204 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset204 Arial;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset204 Microsoft YaHei;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset204 Arial;}{\f7\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\sb240\sa120\keepn\dbch\af5\dbch\af6\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 \u1047\'c7\u1072\'e0\u1075\'e3\u1086\'ee\u1083\'eb\u1086\'ee\u1074\'e2\u1086\'ee\u1082\'ea;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140 \u1054\'ce\u1089\'f1\u1085\'ed\u1086\'ee\u1074\'e2\u1085\'ed\u1086\'ee\u1081\'e9 \u1090\'f2\u1077\'e5\u1082\'ea\u1089\'f1\u1090\'f2;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\dbch\af7 \u1057\'d1\u1087\'ef\u1080\'e8\u1089\'f1\u1086\'ee\u1082\'ea;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af7\afs24\ai\fs24 \u1053\'cd\u1072\'e0\u1079\'e7\u1074\'e2\u1072\'e0\u1085\'ed\u1080\'e8\u1077\'e5;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af7 \u1059\'d3\u1082\'ea\u1072\'e0\u1079\'e7\u1072\'e0\u1090\'f2\u1077\'e5\u1083\'eb\u1100\'fc;}
}{\*\generator Free_File_Viewers/6.2.3.2$Windows_x86 LibreOffice_project/}{\info{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr2021\mo8\dy24\hr13\min46}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}}{\*\userprops}\deftab709
\viewscale100
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 \u1041\'3f\u1072\'3f\u1079\'3f\u1086\'3f\u1074\'3f\u1099\'3f\u1081\'3f;}}
\formshade\paperh16838\paperw11906\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
{\*\ftnsep\chftnsep}\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Royal Proclamation, 1763}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
First - The Government of Quebec bounded on the Labrador Coast by the River St. John, and from thence by a Line drawn from the Head of that River through the Lake St. John, to the South end of the Lake Nipissim; from whence the said Line, crossing the River St. Lawrence, and the Lake Champlain, in 45 Degrees of North Latitude, passes along the High Lands which divide the Rivers that empty themselves into the said River St Lawrence from those which fall into the Sea; and also along the North Coast of the Baye des Chaleurs, and the Coast of the Gulf of St. Lawrence to Cape Rosieres, and from thence crossing the Mouth of the River St. Lawrence by the West End of the Island of Anticosti, terminates at the aforesaid River of St. John.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Secondly - The Government of East Florida. bounded to the Westward by the Gulf of Mexico and the Apalachicola River; to the Northward by a Line drawn from that part of the said River where the Chatahouchee and Flint Rivers meet, to the source of St. Mary's River, and by the course of the said River to the Atlantic Ocean; and to the Eastward and Southward by the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Florida. including all Islands within Six Leagues of the Sea Coast.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Thirdly - The Government of West Florida, bounded to the Southward by the Gulf of Mexico. including all Islands within Six Leagues of the Coast, from the River Apalachicola to Lake Pontchartrain; to the Westward by the said Lake, the Lake Maurepas, and the River Mississippi; to the Northward by a Line drawn due East from that part of the River Mississippi which lies in 31 Degrees North Latitude, to the River Apalachicola or Chatahouchee; and to the Eastward by the said River.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Fourthly - The Government of Grenada. comprehending the Island of that name, together with the Grenadines, and the Islands of Dominico, St. Vincent's and Tobago. And to the end that the open and free Fishery of our Subjects may be extended to and carried on upon the Coast of Labrador, and the adjacent Islands. We have thought fit, with the advice of our said Privy Council to put all that Coast, from the River St. John's to Hudson's Streights, together with the Islands of Anticosti and Madelaine, and all other smaller Islands lying upon the said Coast, under the care and Inspection of our Governor of Newfoundland.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
We have also, with the advice of our Privy Council, thought fit to annex the Islands of St. John's and Cape Breton, or Isle Royale, with the lesser Islands adjacent thereto, to our Government of Nova Scotia;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
We have also, with the advice of our Privy Council aforesaid, annexed to our Province of Georgia all the Lands lying between the Rivers Alatamaha and St. Mary's.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
And whereas it will greatly contribute to the speedy settling of our said new Governments, that our loving Subjects should be informed of our Paternal care, for the security of the Liberties and Properties of those who are and shall become Inhabitants thereof, We have thought fit to Publish and declare, by this Our Proclamation, that We have, in the Letters Patent under our Great Seal of Great Britain, by which the said Governments are constituted, given express Power and Direction to our Governors of our Said Colonies respectively, that so soon as the state and circumstances of the said Colonies will admit thereof, they shall, with the Advice and consent of the Members of our council. summon and call General Assemblies within the said Governments respectively, in such Manner and Form as is used and directed in those Colonies and Provinces in America which are under our immediate Government; And We have also given Power to the said Governors, with the consent of our Said Councils. and the Representatives of the People so to be summoned as aforesaid, to make. constitute. and ordain Laws. Statutes, and Ordinances for the Public Peace, Welfare, and good Government of our said Colonies, and of the People and Inhabitants thereof. as near as may be agreeable to the Laws of England, and under such Regulations and Restrictions as are used in other Colonies; and in the mean Time, and until such Assemblies can be called as aforesaid, all Persons Inhahiring in or resorting to our Said Colonies may confide in our Royal Protection for the Enjoyment of the Benefit of the Laws of our Realm of England; for which Purpose We have given Power under our Great Seal to the Governors of our said colonies respectively to erect and constitute, with the Advice of our said Councils respectively, Courts of Judicature and public Justice within our Said Colonies for hearing and determining all Causes. as well Criminal as Civil. according to Law and Equity, and as near as may be agreeable to the Laws of England, with Liberty to all Persons who may think themselves aggrieved by the Sentences of such Courts, in all Civil Crises, to appeal, under the usual Limitations and Restrictions. to Us in our Privy Council.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
We have also thought fit. With the advice of our Privy Council; Is aforesaid, to give unto the Governors and Councils of our said Three new Colonies, upon the Continent full Power and Authority to settle and agree with the Inhabitants of our said new Colonies or with any other Persons who shall resort thereto, for such Lands, Tenements and Hereditaments, as are now or hereafter shall be in our Power to dispose of; and them to grant t to any such Person or Persons upon such Terms, and under such moderate Quit-Rents, Services and Acknowledgements, as have been appointed and settled in our other Colonies, and under such other Conditions as shall appear to us to be necessary and expedient for the Advantage of the Grantees, and the Improvement and settlement of our said Colonies.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
And Whereas, We are desirous, upon all occasions, to testify st our Royal Sense and Approbation of the Conduct and bravery of the Officers and Soldiers of our Armies, and to reward the same, We do hereby command and empower our Governors of our said Three new colonies Quebec, East Florida and West Florida 1, and all other our Governors of our several Provinces on the Continent of North America, to grant without Fee or Reward, to such reduced Officers as have served in North America during the late War, and to such Private Soldiers as have been or shall be disbanded in America, and are actually residing there, and shall Personally apply for the same, the following Quantities of Lands, subject, at the Expiration of Ten Years. to the same Quit-Rents as other Lands are subject to in the Province within which they are granted, as also subject to the same Conditions of Cultivation and Improvement; viz.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
To every Person having the Rank of a Field Officer-5,000 Acres.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
To every Captain--3,000 Acres.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
To every Subaltern or Staff Officer--2,000 Acres.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
To every Non-Commission Officer--200 Acres.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
To every Private Man-50 Acres.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
We do likewise authorize and require the Governors and Commanders in Chief of all our said Colonies upon the Continent of North America to grant the like Quantities of Land, and upon the same conditions, to such reduced Officers of our navy of like Rank as served on board our Ships of War in North America at the times of the Reduction of Louisbourg and Quebec in the late War. and who shall personally apply to our respective Governors for such Grants.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
And whereas it is just and reasonable, and essential to our Interest, and the Security of our Colonies, that the several Nations or Tribes of Indians with whom We are connected, and who live under our Protection, should not be molested or disturbed in the Possession of such Parts of Our Dominions and Territories as, not having been ceded to or purchased by Us, are reserved to them, or any of them, as their Hunting Grounds.- We do therefore, with the Advice of our Privy Council, declare it to be our Royal Will and Pleasure, that no Governor or Commander in Chief in any of our Colonies of Quebec, East Florida, or West Florida, do presume, upon any Pretence whatever, to grant Warrants of Survey, or pass any Patents for Lands beyond the Bounds of their respective Governments, as described in their Commissions; as also that no Governor or Commander in Chief in any of our other Colonies or Plantations in America do presume for the present, and until our further Pleasure be known, to grant Warrants of Survey, or pass Patents for any Lands beyond the Heads or Sources olany of the Rivers which fall into the Atlantic Ocean from the West and North West, or upon any Lands whatever, which, not having been ceded to or purchased by Us as aforesaid, are reserved to the said Indians, or any of them.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
And We do further declare it to be Our Royal Will and Pleasure, for the present as aforesaid, to reserve under our Sovereignty, Protection, and Dominion, for the use of the said Indians, all the Lands and Territories not included within the Limits of Our said Three new Governments, or within the Limits of the Territory granted to the Hudson's Bay Company, as also all the Lands and Territories lying to the Westward of the Sources of the Rivers which fall into the Sea from the West and North West as aforesaid.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
And We do hereby strictly forbid, on Pain of our Displeasure, all our loving Subjects from making any Purchases or Settlements whatever, or taking Possession of any of the Lands above reserved, without our especial leave and Licence for that Purpose first obtained.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
And, We do further strictly enjoin and require all Persons whatever who have either wilfully or inadvertently seated themselves upon any Lands within the Countries above described, or upon any other Lands which, not having been ceded to or purchased by Us, are still reserved to the said Indians as aforesaid, forthwith to remove themselves from such Settlements.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
And whereas great Frauds and Abuses have been committed in purchasing Lands of the Indians, to the great Prejudice of our Interests, and to the great Dissatisfaction of the said Indians; In order, therefore, to prevent such Irregularities for the future, and to the end that the Indians may be convinced of our Justice and determined Resolution to remove all reasonable Cause of Discontent, We do, with the Advice of our Privy Council strictly enjoin and require, that no private Person do presume to make any purchase from the said Indians of any Lands reserved to the said Indians, within those parts of our Colonies where, We have thought proper to allow Settlement; but that, if at any Time any of the Said Indians should be inclined to dispose of the said Lands, the same shall be Purchased only for Us, in our Name, at some public Meeting or Assembly of the said Indians, to be held for that Purpose by the Governor or commander in Chief of our Colony respectively within which they shall lie; and in case they shall lie within the limits of any Proprietary Government, they shall be purchased only for the Use and in the name of such Proprietors, conformable to such Directions and Instructions as We or they shall think proper to give for that Purpose; And we do, by the Advice of our Privy Council, declare and enjoin, that the Trade with the said Indians shall be free and open to all our Subjects whatever, provided that every Person who may incline to Trade with the said Indians do take out a Licence for carrying on such Trade from the Governor or Commander in Chief of any of our Colonies respectively where such Person shall reside, and also give Security to observe such Regulations as We shall at any Time think fit, by ourselves or by our Commissaries to be appointed for this Purpose, to direct and appoint for the Benefit of the said Trade:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
And we do hereby authorize enjoin, and require the Governors and Commanders in Chief of all our Colonies respectively, as well those under Our immediate Government as those under the Government and Direction of Proprietors, to grant such Licences without Fee or Reward, taking especial Care to insert therein a Condition, that such Licence shall be void, and the Security forfeited in case the Person to whom the same is granted shall refuse or neglect to observe such Regulations as We shall think proper to prescribe as aforesaid.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
And we do further expressly enjoin and require all Officers whatever, as well Military as those Employed in the Management and Direction of Indian Affairs, within the Territories reserved as aforesaid for the use of the said Indians, to seize and apprehend all Persons whatever, who standing charged with Treason, Misprisions of Treason, Murders, or other Felonies or Misdemeanours, shall fly from Justice and take Refuge in the said Territory, and to send them under a proper guard to the Colony where the Crime was committed of which they stand accused, in order to take their Trial for the same.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Given at our Court at Saint James's the 7th Day of October 1763, in the Third Year of our Reign.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
GOD SAVE THE KING}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Top}
\par }