{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset204 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset204 Arial;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset204 Microsoft YaHei;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset204 Arial;}{\f7\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\sb240\sa120\keepn\dbch\af5\dbch\af6\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 \u1047\'c7\u1072\'e0\u1075\'e3\u1086\'ee\u1083\'eb\u1086\'ee\u1074\'e2\u1086\'ee\u1082\'ea;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140 \u1054\'ce\u1089\'f1\u1085\'ed\u1086\'ee\u1074\'e2\u1085\'ed\u1086\'ee\u1081\'e9 \u1090\'f2\u1077\'e5\u1082\'ea\u1089\'f1\u1090\'f2;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sl276\slmult1\sb0\sa140\dbch\af7 \u1057\'d1\u1087\'ef\u1080\'e8\u1089\'f1\u1086\'ee\u1082\'ea;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af7\afs24\ai\fs24 \u1053\'cd\u1072\'e0\u1079\'e7\u1074\'e2\u1072\'e0\u1085\'ed\u1080\'e8\u1077\'e5;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af7 \u1059\'d3\u1082\'ea\u1072\'e0\u1079\'e7\u1072\'e0\u1090\'f2\u1077\'e5\u1083\'eb\u1100\'fc;}
}{\*\generator Free_File_Viewers/6.2.3.2$Windows_x86 LibreOffice_project/}{\info{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr2021\mo8\dy24\hr13\min27}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}}{\*\userprops}\deftab709
\viewscale100
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 \u1041\'3f\u1072\'3f\u1079\'3f\u1086\'3f\u1074\'3f\u1099\'3f\u1081\'3f;}}
\formshade\paperh16838\paperw11906\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
{\*\ftnsep\chftnsep}\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
30 & 31 Victoria, ch. 3 (UK)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(Consolidated with modifications)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
An Act respecting the Union and the Government of Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, as well as the objects related thereto.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[ March 29, 1867 ]}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Whereas the provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick have expressed the desire to contract a Federal Union to form one and the same Power ( Dominion ) under the crown of the United Kingdom of the Great Brittany and Ireland, with a constitution based on the same principles as that of the United Kingdom:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Considering further that such a union would have the effect of developing the prosperity of the provinces and promoting the interests of the British Empire:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Considering further that it is opportune, concurrently with the establishment of the union by authority of parliament, not only to decree the constitution of the legislative power of the Dominion, but also to define the nature of its executive government:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Considering further that it is necessary to provide for the eventual admission of other parts of British North America into the Union: (1)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
I.   PRELIMINARY}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Short title\tab 1.\tab Short title: Constitution Act, 1867 . (2)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[Repealed]\tab 2.\tab Repealed. (3)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
II.   UNION}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Establishment of union\tab 3.\tab It shall be open to the Queen, in the opinion of the Right Honorable Her Majesty's Privy Council, to declare by proclamation that, as of the day designated therein, but not later than six months after the passing of this Act, the provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick will form one and the same Power under the name of Canada; and from that day on, these three provinces will form, consequently, only one and the same Power under this name. (4)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Interpretation of subsequent provisions of the law\tab 4.\tab Unless otherwise expressly or impliedly, the name of Canada shall mean Canada as constituted under this Act. (5)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Four provinces\tab 5.\tab Canada will be divided into four provinces, called: Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. (6)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Provinces of Ontario and Quebec\tab 6.\tab The parts of the province of Canada (as existing at the time of the passing of this law) which formerly constituted the respective provinces of Upper and Lower Canada, shall be deemed to be separate and shall form two distinct provinces. The part which was formerly the province of Upper Canada will form the province of Ontario; and the part which constituted the province of Lower Canada will form the province of Quebec.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick\tab 7.\tab The provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick will have the same boundaries assigned to them at the time of the passage of this Act.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Decennial census\tab 8.\tab In the general census of the population of Canada which, by virtue of the present law, shall be carried out in eighteen hundred and seventy-one, and every ten years thereafter, a separate enumeration of the respective populations of the four provinces shall be made.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
III.  EXECUTIVE POWER}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Queen is vested with executive power\tab 9.\tab To The Queen shall continue to be and hereby vested with the executive government and authority of Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Application of Governor General Provisions\tab 10.\tab The provisions of this Act relating to the Governor General extend and apply to the Governor General of Canada, or to any Chief Executive or Administrator for the time then, administering the Government of Canada on behalf of the Queen, which regardless of the title under which it may be designated.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Constitution of the Privy Council\tab 11.\tab There shall be, to assist and advise, in the administration of the Government of Canada, a council to be called the Queen's Privy Council for Canada; the persons who will form part of this council will, from time to time, be chosen and appointed by the Governor-General and sworn in as Private Councilors; the members of this council may, from time to time, be removed from office by the Governor General.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Powers conferred on Governor General, in Council or alone\tab 12.\tab or by such governors or lieutenant-governors individually, shall, in so far as they continue to exist and may be exercised, after union, in relation to the government of Canada, vested in the Governor-General and may be by him exercised with the advice or advice and consent of or with the cooperation of the Queen's Privy Council for Canada or any of its members, or by the Governor General individually, as the case may be; but they will be able, (7)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Application of Governor General in Council Provisions\tab 13.\tab The provisions of this Act relating to the Governor General in Council shall be interpreted so as to apply to the Governor General acting on the advice of the Queen's Privy Council for Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Governor-General authorized to appoint deputies\tab 14.\tab It shall be open to the Queen, if Her Majesty considers it expedient, to authorize the Governor General to appoint from time to time one or more persons, jointly or separately, to act as her Member or Members in any party or parts of Canada, in that capacity, to exercise, during the pleasure of the Governor-General, such powers, duties and functions as the Governor-General deems advisable or necessary for him or to assign to them, subject to the restrictions or instructions given or communicated by the Queen;but the appointment of such deputy or deputies cannot prevent the governor-general himself from exercising the powers, attributions or functions which are conferred on him.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Command of the armies\tab 15.\tab The Queen will continue to be and hereby is given command-in-chief of the Land and Sea Militias and of all military and naval forces in Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Headquarters of the Government of Canada\tab 16.\tab Until the Queen pleases otherwise, Ottawa will be the seat of the Government of Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
IV.  LEGISLATIVE POWER}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Constitution of the Parliament of Canada\tab 17.\tab There will be a parliament for Canada which will be made up of the Queen, an upper house called the Senate, and the House of Commons.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Privileges etc., of rooms\tab 18.\tab The privileges, immunities and powers to be possessed and exercised by the Senate and the House of Commons and the members of such respective bodies shall be those prescribed from time to time by law of the Parliament of Canada; but so that no law of the Parliament of Canada defining such privileges, immunities and powers will give no privileges, immunities or powers exceeding those which, at the time of the passing of this Act, are possessed and exercised by the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and (8)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
First session of parliament\tab 19.\tab The Parliament of Canada will be convened no more than six months after the union. (9)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[Repealed]\tab 20.\tab Repealed. (10)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
THE SENATE}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Number of Senators\tab 21.\tab Subject to the provisions of this law, the Senate will be composed of one hundred and five members, who will be called senators. (11)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Representation of provinces in the Senate\tab 22.\tab Regarding the composition of the Senate, Canada will be supposed to have four divisions:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1.\tab Ontario;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
2.\tab Quebec;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
3.\tab the Maritime provinces - Nova Scotia and New Brunswick as well as Prince Edward Island;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
4.\tab the western provinces: Manitoba, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Alberta;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
the four divisions shall (subject to revisions to this Act) be equally represented in the Senate, as follows: Ontario by twenty-four senators; Quebec by twenty-four senators; the Maritime Provinces and Prince Edward Island by twenty-four senators, ten of whom represent Nova Scotia, ten represent New Brunswick, and four represent Prince Edward Island; the Western Provinces by twenty-four senators, six of whom represent Manitoba, six from British Columbia, six from Saskatchewan and six from Alberta; the province of Newfoundland will be entitled to be represented in the Senate by six senators; the Yukon Territory and the Northwest Territories are entitled to be represented in the Senate by one Senator each.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
With regard to the province of Quebec, each of the twenty-four senators representing it will be appointed for one of the twenty-four electoral colleges of Lower Canada listed in Schedule A, appended to Chapter I of the revised statutes of Canada. (12)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Qualifications required of senators\tab 23.\tab The qualifications of a Senator will be as follows:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1.\tab He must be at least thirty years old;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
2.\tab He shall be a born subject of the Queen, or a subject of the Queen naturalized by law of the Parliament of Great Britain, or of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, or of the Legislature of the one of the provinces of Upper Canada, Lower Canada, Canada, Nova Scotia, or New Brunswick, before union, or of the Parliament of Canada, after union;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
3.\tab He must own, for his own use and benefit, as owner in law or in equity, lands or tenements held in free and common pledge, - or be in good seizure or possession, for his own use and benefit, of lands or tenements. held in freehold or in common in the province for which he is appointed, to the value of four thousand piastres in addition to all annuities, debts, charges,mortgages and royalties which may be attached, due and payable on these buildings or to which they may be assigned;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
4.\tab All in all, his movable and immovable property must be worth four thousand piastres, in addition to all his debts and obligations;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
5.\tab He must be domiciled in the province for which he is appointed;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
6.\tab With regard to the province of Quebec, he must be domiciled or have his land qualification in the electoral college whose representation is assigned to him. (13)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Appointment of Senators\tab 24.\tab The Governor General shall from time to time appoint to the Senate, on behalf of the Queen and by instrument under the Great Seal of Canada, qualified persons; and, subject to the provisions of this law, the persons so mandated will become and will be members of the Senate and senators.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[Repealed]\tab 25.\tab Repealed. (14)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Number of senators increased in some cases\tab 26.\tab If at any time, on the recommendation of the Governor General, the Queen considers it expedient to order that four or eight members be added to the Senate, the Governor General may, by warrant addressed to four or eight persons (as the case may be) qualified, also representing the four divisions of Canada, add them to the Senate. (15)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Reduction of the Senate to the regular number\tab 27.\tab In the event that the number of senators is thus at any time increased, the Governor-General shall not appoint any person to the Senate, except on such order of the Queen given following the same recommendation, as long as the representation of each of the four divisions of Canada will not revert to the fixed number of twenty-four senators. (16)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Maximum number of senators\tab 28.\tab The number of senators shall at no time exceed one hundred and thirteen. (17)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Senators appointed for life\tab 29.\tab (1) Subject to subsection (2), a Senator holds office in the Senate for his or her life, except as provided in this Act.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Retirement at the age of seventy-five\tab \tab (2) A Senator who is appointed to the Senate after the coming into force of this paragraph shall occupy his place in the Senate, subject to this Act, until he reaches the age of seventy-five years. (18)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Senators can resign from office\tab 30.\tab A senator may, in writing bearing his signature and addressed to the Governor General, resign from office in the Senate, after which his seat shall become vacant.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Cases in which the seats of senators become vacant\tab 31.\tab A Senator's seat will become vacant in each of the following cases:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1.\tab If, during two consecutive sessions of the Parliament, he fails to attend the sessions of the Senate;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
2.\tab If he takes an oath, or subscribes to a declaration or acknowledgment of allegiance, obedience or attachment to a foreign power, or if he performs an act which makes him a subject or a citizen, or confers on him the rights and privileges of a subject or citizen of a foreign power;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
3.\tab If he is declared in a state of bankruptcy or bankruptcy, or if he has recourse to the benefit of any law concerning bankruptcy, or if he is guilty of concussion;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
4.\tab If he is afflicted with treason or convicted of felony, or of any infamous crime;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
5.\tab If it ceases to have the qualification based on property or domicile; but a Senator shall not be deemed to have lost the qualification based on domicile by the sole fact of his residence at the seat of the Government of Canada while he occupies an office under that Government which requires his presence there.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Appointment in case of vacancy\tab 32.\tab When a seat in the Senate becomes vacant by resignation, death or any other cause, the Governor General will fill the vacancy by issuing a warrant to some capable and qualified person.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Questions about qualifications and vacancies, etc.\tab 33.\tab If any question arises concerning the qualifications of a senator or a vacancy in the Senate, that question shall be heard and decided by the Senate.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Speaker of the Senate\tab 34.\tab The Governor General may, from time to time, by instrument under the Great Seal of Canada, appoint a Senator as speaker of the Senate, and remove him or her and appoint another in his stead. (19)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Quorum of the Senate\tab 35.\tab Until the Parliament of Canada orders otherwise, the presence of at least fifteen Senators, including the speaker, will be required to constitute an assembly of the Senate in the exercise of its functions.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Voting in the Senate\tab 36.\tab Questions raised in the Senate will be decided by a majority of votes, and in all cases, the speaker will have the right to vote; when the votes are equally divided, the decision will be deemed to have been rendered in the negative.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
THE HOUSE OF COMMONS}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Constitution of the House of Commons\tab 37.\tab The House of Commons shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be composed of two hundred and ninety-five members, of whom ninety-nine shall represent Ontario, seventy-five Quebec, eleven Nova Scotia, ten the New -Brunswick, fourteen Manitoba, thirty-two British Columbia, four Prince Edward Island, twenty-six Alberta, fourteen Saskatchewan, seven Newfoundland, one the Yukon Territory and two Northwest Territories. (20)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Convocation of the House of Commons\tab 38.\tab The Governor General will from time to time convene the House of Commons on behalf of the Queen by instrument under the Great Seal of Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Exclusion of Senators from the House of Commons\tab 39.\tab A senator cannot be elected, nor sit, nor vote as a member of the House of Commons.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Electoral districts of the four provinces\tab 40.\tab Until the Parliament of Canada orders otherwise, the provinces of Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick will, as regards the election of members of the House of Commons, be divided. into electoral districts as follows:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1. Ontario}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The province of Ontario shall be divided into counties, divisions of counties ( Ridings ), cities, parts of cities and towns as listed in the first schedule to this Act; each of these divisions shall form an electoral district, and each district designated in this annex shall be entitled to elect one member.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
2. Quebec}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The province of Quebec will be divided into sixty-five electoral districts, comprising the sixty-five electoral divisions into which Lower Canada is currently divided by virtue of chapter two of the Consolidated Statutes of Canada, and chapter seventy-five of the Statutes Recast for Lower Canada, and of the Act of the Province of Canada of the Twenty-Third Year of the Reign of Her Majesty the Queen, Chapter I, or of any other law amending them and in force at the time of the 'union, in such a way that each electoral division constitutes, for the purposes of this law, an electoral district having the right to elect a member.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
3. Nova Scotia}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Each of Nova Scotia's eighteen counties will form an electoral district. The County of Halifax will be entitled to elect two members and each of the other counties one member.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
4. New Brunswick}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Each of the fourteen counties of which New Brunswick is made up, including the city and county of St. John, will form an electoral district. The city of St. John will also constitute an electoral district on its own. Each of these fifteen electoral districts will have the right to elect one member. (21)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Continuation of current election laws\tab 41.\tab Until the Parliament of Canada orders otherwise, all laws in force in the various provinces, at the time of the union, relating to the following matters or none of them, namely: eligibility or ineligibility of candidates or members of the chamber of assembly or legislative assembly in the various provinces, the voters in the elections of these members, the oaths required of the voters, the officer-rapporteurs, their powers and their duties, the mode of proceeding to the elections, as long as they can last,the decision of the contested elections and the incidental procedures thereto, the vacancies of the seats in parliament and the execution of new writs in the cases of vacations occasioned by causes other than the dissolution, will apply respectively to the elections of the members sent to the House of Commons by these various provinces.causes other than dissolution, shall apply respectively to the elections of the members sent to the House of Commons by these various provinces.causes other than dissolution, shall apply respectively to the elections of the members sent to the House of Commons by these various provinces.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
But, until the Parliament of Canada orders otherwise, at each election of a member of the House of Commons for the District of Algoma, in addition to those persons entitled to vote under the law of the Province of Canada, any English subject of the male sex, twenty-one years of age or over and holding fire and place, shall have the right to vote. (22)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[Repealed]\tab 42.\tab Repealed. (23)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[Repealed]\tab 43.\tab Repealed. (24)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Speaker of the House of Commons\tab 44.\tab The House of Commons, at its first meeting after a general election, will, with all possible speed, elect one of its members as speaker.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
When the office of speaker becomes vacant\tab 45.\tab In the event of a vacancy in the office of speaker, by death, resignation or other cause, the House of Commons will proceed, with all possible speed, to the election of another of its members as speaker.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The speaker takes the chair\tab 46.\tab The speaker will preside over all sittings of the House of Commons.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Provided in the event of the absence of the speaker\tab 47.\tab Until the Parliament of Canada orders otherwise, if the speaker for any reason leaves the chair of the House of Commons for forty-eight consecutive hours, the chamber may elect another of its members to act as speaker; the member thus elected shall have and exercise, during the absence of the speaker, all the powers, privileges and attributions of the latter. (25)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Quorum of the House of Commons\tab 48.\tab The presence of at least twenty members of the House of Commons will be necessary to constitute an assembly of the chamber in the exercise of its powers; for this purpose, the speaker will be counted as a member.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Voting in the House of Commons\tab 49.\tab Questions raised in the House of Commons will be decided by a majority of votes, except that of the speaker, but when the votes are equally divided, and in this case only, the speaker may vote.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Duration of the House of Commons\tab 50.\tab The term of the House of Commons shall be only five years, from the day of the report of the writs of election, unless it is earlier dissolved by the Governor General. (26)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Electoral revisions\tab 51.\tab (1) Upon the entry into force of this paragraph and, thereafter, at the end of each decennial census, the number of deputies and the representation of the provinces in the House of Commons shall be revised according to the powers conferred and the terms of time or otherwise fixed from time to time by the Parliament of Canada, taking into account the following rules:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Rules\tab \tab }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1.\tab Each province is assigned the number of deputies resulting from the division of the number of its population by the quotient of the total number of the population of the provinces and two hundred and seventy-nine, the results of which the decimal part exceeds 0.50 being rounded up to the next unit.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
2.\tab The total number of deputies of a province remains unchanged from the representation it had on the date of entry into force of this paragraph if the application of rule 1 gives it a number lower than that representation. (27)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut\tab \tab }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(2) The Yukon Territory, the Northwest Territories and Nunavut, within the limits and as described respectively in the schedule to chapter Y-2 of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1985, section 2 of chapter N-27 of the Revised Statutes of Canada (1985), as amended by section 77 of chapter 28 of the Statutes of Canada, 1993, as well as section 3 of chapter 28 of the Statutes of Canada, 1993, are entitled to one deputy each. (28)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Constitution of the House of Commons\tab 51A.\tab Notwithstanding anything in this Act, a province shall always be entitled to a number of members in the House of Commons not less than the number of senators representing that province. (29)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Increase in the number of members of the House of Commons\tab 52.\tab The number of members of the House of Commons may from time to time be increased by the Parliament of Canada, provided that the proportion established by this Act in the representation of the provinces remains intact.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
FINANCIAL LEGISLATION; ROYAL SANCTION}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Bills to raise credits and taxes\tab 53.\tab Any bill having as its object the appropriation of any portion of the public revenue, or the creation of taxes or imposts, shall originate in the House of Commons.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Credit recommendation\tab 54.\tab It shall not be open to the House of Commons to pass any resolution, address or bill for the appropriation of any part of the public revenue, or of any tax or impost, for any object which shall not have, at the previously, been recommended to the House by a message from the Governor-General during the session in which such resolution, address or bill is proposed.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Royal assent to bills, etc.\tab 55.\tab When a bill passed by the Houses of Parliament is presented to the Governor-General for the Queen's Assent, the Governor-General shall declare at his discretion, but subject to the provisions of this Act and to the instructions of Her Majesty, or that 'he assent it in the name of the Queen, or he refuses that sanction, or he reserves the bill for service to the Queen's pleasure.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Disallowance by Order in Council of Acts Assented by the Governor General\tab 56.\tab When the Governor-General has given assent to a bill in the name of the Queen, he shall, at the first favorable opportunity, transmit an authentic copy of the law to one of Her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State; if the Queen in Council, within two years after the Secretary of State receives it, deems it advisable to disavow it, this disavowal, - accompanied by a certificate from the Secretary of State, noting the day on which it will have received the law - being served by the Governor General, by speech or message,}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Significance of the Queen's pleasure in respect of reserved bills\tab 57.\tab A bill reserved for the service of the Queen's pleasure shall have neither force nor effect before and unless within two years from the day on which it is presented to the Governor General for the Queen's assent, that time. The latter does not signify, by speech or message, to each of the two Houses of Parliament, or by proclamation, that he has received the assent of the Queen in Council.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
These speeches, messages or proclamations will be recorded in the journals of each chamber, and a duly certified duplicate will be issued to the officer he belongs to for deposit among the archives of Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
V.   PROVINCIAL CONSTITUTIONS}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
EXECUTIVE POWER}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Lieutenant-governors of the provinces\tab 58.\tab There will be, for each province, an officer called Lieutenant Governor, who will be appointed by the Governor General in Council by instrument under the Great Seal of Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Term of office of lieutenant governors\tab 59.\tab The Lieutenant Governor will remain in office during the pleasure of the Governor General; but any lieutenant-governor appointed after the commencement of the first session of the Parliament of Canada, may not be dismissed during the five years which follow his appointment, unless there is cause; and this cause must be communicated to him in writing within one month after the order decreeing his dismissal has been issued, and also be communicated by message to the Senate and to the House of Commons in the course of}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Lieutenant Governors' Salaries\tab 60.\tab The salaries of lieutenant governors will be fixed and paid by the Parliament of Canada. (30)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Oaths, etc., of the Lieutenant Governor\tab 61.\tab Each lieutenant-governor, before entering into the exercise of his functions, shall take and subscribe before the Governor-General or any person authorized thereto by him, the oaths of allegiance and office taken by the Governor-General.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Application of provisions relating to Lieutenant Governor\tab 62.\tab The provisions of this Act relating to the lieutenant governor extend and apply to the lieutenant governor of each province or to any other chief executive or administrator for the time then administering the government of the province, regardless of the title under which it is designated.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Ontario and Quebec Executive Councils\tab 63.\tab The executive council of Ontario and Quebec shall be composed of such persons as the Lieutenant Governor deems appropriate from time to time to appoint, and in the first place, of the following officers, namely: the Attorney General, the Secretary and Registrar of the province, the treasurer of the province, the commissioner of crown lands, and the commissioner of agriculture and public works, and - in the province of Quebec - the speaker of the legislative council, and the solicitor general. (31)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Executive Government of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick\tab 64.\tab The constitution of executive authority in each of the provinces of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia shall continue, subject to the provisions of this Act, to be that in existence at the time of union, until such time as it is established. be amended under the authority of this law. (32)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Powers conferred on the Lieutenant-Governor of Ontario or Quebec, in council or alone\tab 65.\tab or by such governors or lieutenant-governors individually, will be - to the extent that they may be exercised after the union, in relation to the government of Ontario and Quebec respectively - conferred on the lieutenant-governor of Ontario and Quebec, respectively, and may be exercised by him, with the advice or opinion and consent or with the cooperation of the respective executive councils or any of their members, or by the Lieutenant-Governor individually, as the case may be; but they will be able,(33)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Application of Lieutenant Governors in Council Provisions\tab 66.\tab The provisions of this Act relating to the Lieutenant Governor in Council shall be interpreted as applying to the Lieutenant Governor of the Province acting on the advice of his Executive Council.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Administration in absence, etc., of Lieutenant Governor\tab 67.\tab The Governor General in Council may, from time to time, appoint an administrator to act as Lieutenant Governor during the latter's absence, illness or other incapacity.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Provincial government seats\tab 68.\tab Until the executive government of a province orders otherwise, with respect to such province, the seats of provincial government shall be as follows, namely: for Ontario, the city of Toronto; for Quebec, the city of Quebec; for Nova Scotia, the city of Halifax; and for New Brunswick, the city of Fredericton.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
LEGISLATIVE POWER}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1. ONTARIO}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Ontario Legislature\tab 69.\tab There will be a legislature for Ontario consisting of the Lieutenant Governor and a single chamber called the Legislative Assembly of Ontario.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Electoral districts\tab 70.\tab The legislative assembly of Ontario shall be composed of eighty-two members who shall represent the eighty-two electoral districts enumerated in the first schedule to this law. (34)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
2. QUEBEC}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Quebec Legislature\tab 71.\tab There will be, for Quebec, a legislature composed of the lieutenant-governor and two chambers called the legislative council of Quebec and the legislative assembly of Quebec. (35)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Constitution of the legislative council\tab 72.\tab The legislative council of Quebec will be composed of twenty-four members, who will be appointed by the Lieutenant-Governor in the name of the Queen, by instrument under the Great Seal of Quebec, and must each represent one of the twenty-four colleges. constituencies of Lower Canada mentioned in this law; they shall be appointed for life, unless the legislature of Quebec orders otherwise under the authority of this law.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Qualifications required of legislative counsel\tab 73.\tab The qualifications of legislative counsel for Quebec will be the same as those of senators for Quebec.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Cases in which the seats of legislative counsel become vacant\tab 74.\tab The office of legislative counsel for Quebec will become vacant in cases, mutatis mutandis , where that of senator may become so.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Vacation\tab 75.\tab In the event of a vacancy in the Legislative Council of Quebec, by resignation, death or other cause, the Lieutenant-Governor, in the name of the Queen, will appoint, by instrument under the Great Seal of Quebec, a person capable and having the requisite qualifications for the to fill.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Questions about vacations, etc.\tab 76.\tab If any question arises concerning the qualifications of a legislative councilor of Quebec or a vacancy in the legislative council of Quebec, it will be heard and decided by the legislative council.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Speaker of the Legislative Council\tab 77.\tab The Lieutenant-Governor may, from time to time, by instrument under the Great Seal of Quebec, appoint a member of the legislative council of Quebec as orator of that body, and also dismiss him and appoint another in his place.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Quorum of the Legislative Council\tab 78.\tab Until the legislature of Quebec orders otherwise, the presence of at least ten members of the legislative council, including the speaker, will be necessary to constitute an assembly of the council in the exercise of its functions.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Voting in the legislative council of Quebec\tab 79.\tab Questions raised in the legislative council of Quebec will be decided by a majority of votes, and, in all cases, the speaker will have the right to vote; when the votes are equally divided, the decision will be deemed to have been rendered in the negative.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Constitution of the legislative assembly of Quebec\tab 80.\tab The legislative assembly of Quebec will be composed of sixty-five members, who will be elected to represent the sixty-five electoral divisions or districts of Lower Canada, mentioned in this law, except for any modification which the legislature of Quebec may make; but no bill to the effect of modifying the boundaries of the electoral divisions or districts enumerated in the second schedule of this law may be presented to the lieutenant-governor of Quebec, for his sanction, unless he was passed to his second and third readings in the legislative assembly with the assistance of a majority of members representing all such divisions or electoral districts; and sanction shall not be given to any Bill of this nature unless an address has been presented to the Lieutenant Governor by the Legislative Assembly declaring that such Bill has been so passed.(36)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
3. ONTARIO AND QUEBEC}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[Repealed]\tab 81.\tab Repealed. (37)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Convening of legislative assemblies\tab 82.\tab The Lieutenant Governor of Ontario and Quebec shall, from time to time, in the name of the Queen, by instrument under the Great Seal of the Province, summon the Legislative Assembly of the Province.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Restriction on the election of persons with employment\tab 83.\tab Until the Legislature of Ontario or Quebec orders otherwise, any person who will accept or hold in the Province of Ontario or in the Province of Quebec an office, commission or employment, of a permanent or temporary nature, at the appointment of the Lieutenant Governor, to whom shall be attached an annual salary or any honorarium, allowance, emolument or profit of any kind or amount paid by the Province, shall not be eligible for membership in the Legislative Assembly of that Province, nor must sit or vote in that capacity;but nothing contained in this article shall render ineligible any person who will be a member of the executive council of each respective province or who will fulfill any of the following offices, namely: those of attorney-general, secretary and registrar of the province, treasurer of the province, commissioner of crown lands, and commissioner of agriculture and public works, and, in the province of Quebec, that of solicitor general, nor will it disqualify her from sitting or voting in the chamber for which she is elected , provided that she is elected while she holds this office.those of attorney general, secretary and registrar of the province, treasurer of the province, commissioner of crown lands, and commissioner of agriculture and public works, and, in the province of Quebec, that of solicitor general, nor will render her disqualified from sitting or voting in the chamber for which she is elected, provided that she is elected while she holds that office.those of attorney general, secretary and registrar of the province, treasurer of the province, commissioner of crown lands, and commissioner of agriculture and public works, and, in the province of Quebec, that of solicitor general, nor will render her disqualified from sitting or voting in the chamber for which she is elected, provided that she is elected while she holds that office.nor will it disqualify her from sitting or voting in the chamber for which she is elected, provided she is elected while she is in that office.nor will it disqualify her from sitting or voting in the chamber for which she is elected, provided she is elected while she is in that office.(38)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Continuation of current election laws\tab 84.\tab Until the respective legislatures of Quebec and Ontario order otherwise, all laws in force in those respective provinces, at the time of the union, relating to the following matters or none of them, namely: eligibility or the ineligibility of candidates or members of the assembly of Canada, the qualifications and lack of qualifications required of voters, the oaths required of voters, officer-rapporteurs, their powers and duties, the manner of proceeding to elections, the time that they may last, the decision of contested elections and the related procedures, vacations of seats in parliament, and theissuance and execution of new writs in cases of vacancies occasioned by causes other than dissolution, shall apply respectively to the elections of members elected for the legislative assemblies of Ontario and Quebec respectively.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
But, until the Legislature of Ontario orders otherwise, at each election of a member of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario for the District of Algoma, in addition to those persons entitled to vote under the law from the Province of Canada, any English male subject of twenty-one years of age or over, and holding fire and place, shall have the right to vote. (39)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Duration of legislative assemblies\tab 85.\tab The duration of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario and the Legislative Assembly of Quebec shall be only four years, from the day of the report of the writs of election, unless it is earlier dissolved by the Lieutenant -governor of the province. (40)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Annual session of the legislature\tab 86.\tab There shall be a session of the Legislature of Ontario and of that of Quebec, at least once each year, so that there is no interval of twelve months between the last sitting of a session of the Legislature. in each province, and its first session in the following session. (41)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Speaker, quorum, etc.\tab 87.\tab The following provisions of this Act, relating to the House of Commons of Canada, shall extend and apply to the legislative assemblies of Ontario and Quebec, namely: the provisions relating to the election of a speaker at first instance and when a vacation occurs, the duties of the speaker, his absence, the quorum and the method of voting, just as if these provisions were here decreed and expressly made applicable to each legislative assembly.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
4.  NOVA SCOTIA AND NEW BRUNSWICK}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Constitution of the legislatures of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick\tab 88.\tab The constitution of the legislature of each of the provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick shall continue, subject to the provisions of this Act, to be that in existence at the time of union, until it is amended under the authority of this law. (42)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
5. ONTARIO, QUEBEC AND NOVA SCOTIA}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[Repealed]\tab 89.\tab Repealed. (43)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
6. THE FOUR PROVINCES}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Application to legislatures of provisions relating to appropriations, etc.\tab 90.\tab The following provisions of this Act, relating to the Parliament of Canada, namely: the provisions relating to appropriation and taxation bills, to the recommendation of votes of money, to the assent of bills, to the disavowal of laws, and to the meaning of good pleasure with regard to reserved bills, - shall extend and apply to the legislatures of the different provinces, just as if they were here decreed and made expressly applicable to the respective provinces and their legislatures, however substituting the lieutenant-governor from the province to the Governor-General, the Governor-General to the Queen and the Secretary of State,one year to two years, and the province in Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
VI.  DISTRIBUTION OF LEGISLATIVE POWERS}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
POWERS OF PARLIAMENT}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Legislative authority of the Parliament of Canada\tab 91.\tab It shall be open to the Queen, with the advice and consent of the Senate and the House of Commons, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of Canada, respecting all matters not falling within the categories of subjects by this law exclusively assigned to the legislatures of the provinces; but, for further guarantee, without however limiting the generality of the terms used above in this article, it is hereby declared that (notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Act) the exclusive legislative authority of the Parliament of Canada s'}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1.\tab Repealed. (44)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1A.\tab Public debt and property. (45)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
2.\tab Regulation of traffic and commerce.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
2A.\tab Unemployment insurance. (46)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
3.\tab The collection of funds by all modes or systems of taxation.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
4.\tab The borrowing of money on public credit.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
5.\tab The postal service.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
6.\tab Census and statistics.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
7.\tab The militia, military and naval service, and the defense of the country.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
8.\tab The fixing and payment of salaries and honoraria for civil and other officers of the Government of Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
9.\tab Moorings, buoys, lighthouses and Sable Island.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
10.\tab Navigation and buildings or ships ( shipping ).}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
11.\tab Quarantine and the establishment and maintenance of naval hospitals.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
12.\tab Fisheries on the sea coasts and in the interior.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
13.\tab Water crossings ( ferries ) between a province and any British or foreign country, or between two provinces.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
14.\tab The monetary course and the coinage.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
15.\tab Banks, incorporation of banks and issuance of paper money.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
16.\tab Savings banks.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
17.\tab Weights and measures.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
18.\tab Bills of exchange and promissory notes.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
19.\tab The interest of money.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
20.\tab Legal offers.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
21.\tab Bankruptcy and bankruptcy.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
22.\tab Patents for invention and discovery.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
23.\tab Copyright.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
24.\tab Indians and lands reserved for Indians.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
25.\tab Naturalization and aliens.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
26.\tab Marriage and divorce.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
27.\tab Criminal law, except the constitution of courts of criminal jurisdiction, but including procedure in criminal matters.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
28.\tab The establishment, maintenance, and administration of penitentiaries.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
29.\tab The categories of subjects expressly excepted in the enumeration of the categories of subjects exclusively assigned by this Act to the legislatures of the provinces.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
And none of the matters set forth in the categories of subjects enumerated in this article shall be deemed to fall within the category of matters of a local or private nature included in the enumeration of the categories of subjects exclusively assigned by this Act to the legislatures of the provinces. . (47)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
EXCLUSIVE POWERS OF PROVINCIAL LEGISLATURES}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Subjects subject to the exclusive control of provincial legislation\tab 92.\tab In each province the legislature may exclusively make laws relating to matters falling within the categories of subjects listed below, namely:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1.\tab Repealed. (48)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
2.\tab Direct taxation within the limits of the province, with the aim of raising income for provincial purposes;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
3.\tab The borrowing of money on the sole credit of the province;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
4.\tab The creation and tenure of provincial offices, and the appointment and payment of provincial officers;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
5.\tab The administration and sale of public lands belonging to the province, and of the woods and forests therein;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
6.\tab The establishment, maintenance and administration of public prisons and reform houses in the province;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
7.\tab The establishment, maintenance and administration of hospitals, asylums, institutions and charitable hospices in the province, other than naval hospitals;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
8.\tab Municipal institutions in the province;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
9.\tab Licenses for shops, cabarets, inns, auctioneers and other licenses, for the purpose of raising income for provincial, local, or municipal objects;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
10.\tab Works and undertakings of a local nature, other than those listed in the following categories:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(To)\tab Lines of steamboats or other vessels, railways, canals, telegraphs and other works and undertakings connecting the province with another or other provinces, or extending beyond the limits of the province;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(b)\tab Steamship lines between the province and any country dependent on the British Empire or any foreign country;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(vs)\tab Work which, although entirely situated in the Province, will be declared by the Parliament of Canada before or after its execution to be for the general advantage of Canada, or for the advantage of two or more of the Provinces ;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
11.\tab The incorporation of companies for provincial purposes;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
12.\tab The celebration of marriage in the province;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
13.\tab Property and civil rights in the province;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
14.\tab The administration of justice in the province, including the establishment, maintenance and organization of courts of justice for the province, having civil and criminal jurisdiction, including the procedure in civil matters in these courts;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
15.\tab The infliction of punishments by fine, penalty, or imprisonment, for the purpose of enforcing any law of the province enacted respecting matters falling within any of the categories of subjects enumerated in this article;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
16.\tab Usually all matters of a purely local or private nature in the province.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
NON-RENEWABLE NATURAL RESOURCES, FOREST RESOURCES AND ELECTRICAL ENERGY}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Provincial jurisdiction\tab 92A.\tab (1) The legislature of each province has exclusive jurisdiction to legislate in the following areas:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
( a )\tab prospecting for the province's non-renewable natural resources;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
( b )\tab exploitation, conservation and management of non-renewable natural resources and forest resources in the province, including their rate of primary production;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
( c )\tab development, conservation and management of sites and installations in the province intended for the production of electrical energy.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Export out of provinces\tab \tab (2) The legislature of each province is competent to make laws with respect to the export out of the province to another part of Canada of the primary production derived from non-renewable natural resources and from forest resources of the province, as well as the production of electric power in the province, subject to not passing laws authorizing or providing for disparities in prices or disparities in exports destined for another part of Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Power of Parliament\tab \tab (3) Subsection (2) is without prejudice to the power of Parliament to make laws in the matters referred to in that subsection, the provisions of an Act of Parliament passed in such matters having priority over inconsistent provisions of a provincial law .}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Resource taxation\tab \tab (4) The legislature of each province has jurisdiction to levy sums of money by any mode or system of taxation:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
( a )\tab the non-renewable natural resources and forest resources of the province, as well as the primary production derived from them;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
( b )\tab sites and facilities in the province intended for the production of electrical energy, as well as that production itself.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
This jurisdiction can be exercised regardless of whether or not the production in question is or is not, in whole or in part, exported out of the province, but the laws adopted in these areas cannot authorize or provide for taxation which distinguishes between production exported to another part of Canada and production not exported outside the province.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"Primary production"\tab \tab (5) The expression "primary production" has the meaning given to it in the Sixth Annex.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Existing powers or rights\tab \tab (6) Subsections (1) to (5) are without prejudice to any powers or rights held by the legislature or the government of a province on the coming into force of this section. (49)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
EDUCATION}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Education legislation\tab 93.\tab In each province, the legislature may exclusively enact laws relating to education, subject to and conforming to the following provisions:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(1)\tab Nothing in these laws shall prejudice any right or privilege conferred, upon union, by law on any particular class of persons in the province, in relation to separate schools ( denominational );}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(2)\tab All the powers, privileges and duties conferred and imposed by law in Upper Canada, upon union, on the separate schools and on the school trustees of Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects, shall be and are hereby extended to dissentient schools of Protestant and Roman Catholic subjects of the Queen in the province of Quebec;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(3)\tab In any province where a separate or dissentient school system will exist by law, upon union, or be subsequently established by the legislature of the province - any law or decision may be appealed to the Governor General in Council. of any provincial authority affecting any of the rights or privileges of the Protestant or Roman Catholic minority of Her Majesty's subjects in relation to education;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(4)\tab In the event that such provincial law is not enacted as, from time to time, the Governor-General in Council considers necessary to give effect to and carry out the provisions of this section, - or in the event that any decision of the Governor-General in council, on an appeal brought under this section, would not be carried out by the competent provincial authority - then and in any such case,and as only as the circumstances of each case so require, the Parliament of Canada may enact appropriate remedial laws to give effect to and carry out the provisions of this article, as well as any decision rendered by the Governor-General in advice under the authority of this same article.as well as any decision rendered by the Governor General in Council under the authority of this same section.as well as any decision rendered by the Governor General in Council under the authority of this same section.(50)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Quebec\tab 93A.\tab Subsections (1) to (4) of section 93 do not apply in Quebec. (50.1)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
UNIFORMITY OF LAWS IN ONTARIO,}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
NOVA SCOTIA AND NEW BRUNSWICK}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Uniformity of laws in three provinces\tab 94.\tab Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Act, the Parliament of Canada may adopt measures to provide for the uniformity of all laws or parts of laws relating to property and civil rights in Ontario, New -Scotland and New Brunswick, and proceedings in all or none of the courts of these three provinces; and since and after the passing of any law to this effect, the power of the Parliament of Canada to enact laws relating to the subjects set forth in such laws, shall be unlimited, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this law;}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
OLD AGE PENSIONS}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Legislation concerning old-age pensions and additional benefits}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
94A.\tab The Parliament of Canada may legislate on old age pensions and additional benefits, including survivors 'and invalids' benefits regardless of their age, but no law so enacted shall affect the application of any present or future law. 'a provincial legislature in these matters. (51)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
AGRICULTURE AND IMMIGRATION}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Competing power to enact laws respecting agriculture, etc.\tab 95.\tab In each province the legislature may make laws relating to agriculture and immigration to that province; and it is hereby declared that the Parliament of Canada may from time to time make laws relating to agriculture and immigration in all or any of the provinces in particular; and any law of the legislature of a province relating to agriculture or to immigration shall have effect only as long and as long as it is not inconsistent with any law of the Parliament of Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
VII.   JUDICATURE}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Appointment of judges}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
96.\tab The Governor General will appoint judges of the superior, district and county courts in each province, except those of the audit courts in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Choice of judges in Ontario, etc.\tab 97.\tab Until the laws relating to property and civil rights in Ontario, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, and to the procedure in the courts of such provinces, are made uniform, the judges of the courts of such provinces who will be appointed by the Governor General shall be chosen from among the members of the respective bars of these provinces.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Choice of judges in Quebec\tab 98.\tab The judges of the courts of Quebec will be chosen from among the members of the bar of that province.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Term of office of judges\tab 99.\tab (1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, judges of the superior courts shall remain in office during good conduct, but they may be removed from office by the Governor General at an address of the Senate and the House of Commons.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Termination of functions at the age of 75\tab \tab (2) A judge of a superior court appointed before or after the coming into force of this section shall cease to hold office upon reaching the age of seventy-five years, or upon coming into force. force of this article if, at that time, he has already reached the said age. (52)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Salaries, etc. judges\tab 100.\tab Salaries, allowances and pensions of judges of superior, district and county courts (except audit courts in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick) and Admiralty courts, when judges of the latter are then employees, will be fixed and paid by the Parliament of Canada. (53)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
General Court of Appeal, etc.\tab 101.\tab The Parliament of Canada may, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary set forth in this Act, when the occasion requires it, adopt measures to create, maintain and organize a general court of appeal for Canada, and establish tribunals for the better administration of the laws of Canada. (54)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
VIII.   REVENUES; DEBTS; ASSETS; TAX}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Creation of a consolidated revenue fund\tab 102.\tab All rights and revenues which the respective legislatures of Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, before and at the time of the union, had the power to appropriate, except those reserved by this Act to the legislatures respective provinces, or which will be collected by them in accordance with the special powers conferred on them by this law, shall form a consolidated revenue fund to be appropriate for the public service of Canada in the manner and subject to the charges provided for by this law.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Collection costs, etc.\tab 103.\tab The Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada shall be permanently encumbered with the fees, charges and expenses incurred in collecting, administering and collecting it, which shall constitute the first charge on this fund and may be subject to such review and hearing as may be ordered by the Governor General. in council until parliament provides otherwise.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Interest on provincial public debts\tab 104.\tab The annual interest on the public debts of the various provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, at the time of the union, will constitute the second charge on the consolidated revenue fund of Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Salary of the Governor General\tab 105.\tab Until modified by the Parliament of Canada, the salary of the Governor-General shall be ten thousand louis, sterling rate of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland; this sum will be paid out of the consolidated revenue fund of Canada and will constitute the third charge on this fund. (55)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Use of consolidated fund\tab 106.\tab Subject to the various payments with which the consolidated revenue fund of Canada is encumbered by this law, this fund will be appropriated by the Parliament of Canada for the public service.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Transfer of values, etc.\tab 107.\tab All funds, cash in hand, balances in the hands of the bankers and securities belonging to each province at the time of the union, except the exceptions set out in this Act, shall become the property of Canada and shall be deducted from the amount of the debts. respective provinces during the union.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Transfer of the properties listed in the annex\tab 108.\tab The public works and property of each province, enumerated in the third schedule of this law, shall belong to Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Ownership of land, mines, etc.\tab 109.\tab All lands, mines, minerals and royal reserves belonging to the different provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick at the time of union, and all sums of money then due or payable for such lands, mines, minerals and royal reserves, will belong to the various provinces of Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, in which they are located and situated, or payable, always remaining subject to the charges with which they are encumbered, as well as to all interests other than those which the province may have. (56)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Provincial assets and debts\tab 110.\tab All of the assets inherent in the portions of the public debt assumed by each province will belong to that province.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Liability for provincial debts\tab 111.\tab Canada will be responsible for the debts and obligations of each province existing at the time of union.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Liability for debts of Ontario and Quebec\tab 112.\tab The provinces of Ontario and Quebec will be jointly responsible to Canada for the excess debt (if any) of the province of Canada, if, at the time of union, it exceeds sixty-two million five hundred thousand piastres, and required to pay interest on this excess at the rate of five per cent per annum.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Active in Ontario and Quebec\tab 113.\tab The assets enumerated in the fourth schedule of this law, belonging, at the time of the union, to the province of Canada, will be the property of Ontario and Quebec jointly.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Nova Scotia Debt\tab 114.\tab Nova Scotia will be liable to Canada for the excess (if any) of its public debt if, at the time of the union, it exceeds eight million piastres, and liable to pay the interest on this excess. at the rate of five percent per year. (57)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
New Brunswick debt\tab 115.\tab New Brunswick will be responsible to Canada for the excess (if any) of its public debt, if at the time of the union, it exceeds seven million piastres, and required to pay the interest on this excess. at the rate of five percent per year.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Interest payments to Nova Scotia and New Brunswick\tab 116.\tab In the event that, at the time of the union, the public debts of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick are respectively less than eight million and seven million piastres, these provinces shall each be entitled to receive from the Government of Canada, in semi-annual and advance payments, interest at the rate of five per cent per annum on the difference which will exist between the actual figure of their respective debts and the amount thus fixed.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Provincial public property\tab 117.\tab The various provinces shall respectively retain all their public property which is not otherwise provided for in this law, subject to the right of Canada to take the lands or public property which it will need for the fortifications or the defense of the country.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[Repealed]\tab 118.\tab Repealed. (58)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Additional grant in New Brunswick\tab 119.\tab New Brunswick will receive from Canada, in semi-annual and advance payments, for a period of ten years from the union, an additional grant of sixty-three thousand piastres per year; but as long as the public debt of that province remains below seven million piastres, it will be deducted from this sum of sixty-three thousand piastres, an amount equal to the interest at five per cent per annum on such difference. (59)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Form of payments\tab 120.\tab All payments prescribed by this Act, or intended to extinguish obligations contracted under a law of the Provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick respectively and assumed by Canada, shall be made, until as otherwise ordered by the Parliament of Canada, in such form and manner as the Governor General in Council may from time to time prescribe.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Canadian manufactures, etc.\tab 121.\tab All articles of the vintage, origin or manufacture of any of the provinces will, from the date of the union, be admitted duty free in each of the other provinces.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Continuation of customs and excise laws\tab 122.\tab The customs and excise laws of each province shall remain in force, subject to the provisions of this Act, until amended by the Parliament of Canada. (60)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Export and import between two provinces\tab 123.\tab In the event that customs duties are, at the time of the union, taxable on articles, commodities or goods, in two provinces, these articles, commodities or goods may, after the union, be imported from the one of these two provinces in the other, on proof of payment of the customs duties imposed on them in the province from which they are exported, and on payment of any surplus customs duties (if any) of which they can be minted in the province where they are imported. (61)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Timber Taxes in New Brunswick\tab 124.\tab Nothing in this Act shall prejudice the privilege guaranteed in New Brunswick to levy on timber the rights established by Chapter Fifteen of Title Three of the Revised Statutes of New Brunswick, or by any law amending it before or after l union, but not increasing the number of these rights; and lumber from provinces other than New Brunswick will not be subject to these duties. (62)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Public lands, etc., exempt from taxes\tab 125.\tab No land or property belonging to Canada or to any particular province will be subject to taxation.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Consolidated Provincial Revenue Fund\tab 126.\tab The rights and revenues which the respective legislatures of Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick had, before the union, the power to appropriate, and which are, by this Act, reserved to the governments or legislatures of the provinces respective ones, and all the rights and revenues collected by them in accordance with the special powers conferred on them by this law, will form in each province a consolidated revenue fund which will be appropriate for the public service of the province.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
IX.   MISCELLANEOUS}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
GENERAL PROVISIONS}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[Repealed]\tab 127.\tab Repealed. (63)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Oath of allegiance, etc.\tab 128.\tab Members of the Senate or of the House of Commons of Canada shall, before entering into the exercise of their functions, lend and subscribe, before the Governor-General or any person so authorized by him, and similarly, the members of the legislative council or of the legislative assembly of a province shall, before entering into the exercise of their functions, take and subscribe before the lieutenant-governor of the province or any person authorized thereto by him, the oath of allegiance set out in the fifth schedule to this law; and the members of the Senate of Canada and of the legislative council of Quebec must also, before entering the}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Current laws, courts and officials will continue to exist, etc.\tab 129.\tab Except as otherwise provided by this Act, all laws in force in Canada, Nova Scotia or New Brunswick, at the time of union, all courts of civil and criminal jurisdiction, all commissions, powers and authorities having legal force, and all judicial, administrative and ministerial officers in existence in those provinces at the time of the union, will continue to exist in the provinces of Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick respectively, as if the union had not taken place; but they will be able,(64)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Officials transferred to the service of Canada\tab 130.\tab Until the Parliament of Canada orders otherwise, all the officers of the various provinces having to fulfill duties relating to matters other than those falling within the categories of subjects assigned exclusively by this law to the legislatures of the provinces, shall be officers. of Canada and will continue to fulfill the duties of their respective offices under the same obligations and penalties as if the union had not taken place. (65)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Appointment of new officers\tab 131.\tab Until the Parliament of Canada orders otherwise, the Governor General in Council may from time to time appoint such officers as he considers necessary or advisable for the effective carrying out of this Act.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Obligations arising from treaties\tab 132.\tab The Parliament and the Government of Canada will have all the powers necessary to fulfill towards foreign countries, as a portion of the British Empire, the obligations of Canada or of any of its provinces, arising from treaties concluded between the Empire and these countries. foreigners.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Optional and compulsory use of French and English\tab 133.\tab In the chambers of the Parliament of Canada and the chambers of the legislature of Quebec, the use of the French language or the English language, in the debates, will be optional; but in the drafting of the respective archives, minutes and journals of these chambers, the use of these two languages \u8203\'3f\u8203\'3fwill be compulsory; and in any pleadings or pleadings before the courts or emanating from the courts of Canada which will be established under the authority of this law, and before all the courts or emanating from the courts of Quebec, it may also be done use, at option, of one or the other of these languages.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The laws of the Parliament of Canada and the Legislature of Quebec must be printed and published in these two languages. (66)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
ONTARIO AND QUEBEC}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Appointment of executive officers for Ontario and Quebec\tab 134.\tab Until the Legislature of Ontario or Quebec orders otherwise, the Lieutenant Governors of Ontario and Quebec may each appoint under the Great Seal of the Province the following officials who will remain in office for good pleasure , namely: the attorney general, the secretary and registrar of the province, the treasurer of the province, the commissioner of crown lands, and the commissioner of agriculture and public works, and, as regards Quebec, the solicitor-general; they may also, by order of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, prescribe from time to time the powers of such officials and of the various departments under their control or to which they report, and of the officers and employees attached thereto; and they may also appoint other officials who will remain in charge during good pleasure, and prescribe, from time to time, their attributions and those of the various departments under their control or to which they report, and of the officers and employees attached to them.(67)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Powers, duties, etc., of executive officials\tab 135.\tab shall be conferred or imposed upon any official who shall be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor for the performance of such functions or any of them; the commissioner of agriculture and public works shall fulfill the duties and functions of minister of agriculture prescribed, at the time of the passing of this law, by the law of the province of Canada, as well as those of commissioner of public works.(68)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Great Seals\tab 136.\tab Until modified by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, the Great Seals of Ontario and Quebec respectively will be the same or according to the same model as those used in the provinces of Upper and Lower Canada respectively before their union as province of Canada.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Interpretation of temporary laws\tab 137.\tab The words "and thence until the end of the next session of the legislature", or other words of the same tenor, employed in a temporary law of the Province of Canada not expired before the union, shall be deemed to mean the next session of the Parliament of Canada, if the object of the law falls within the category of the powers attributed to that Parliament and defined in this Constitution, if not, at the next sessions of the legislatures of Ontario and Quebec respectively, if the object of the law falls into the category of powers attributed to these legislatures and defined in this law.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Wrong quotes\tab 138.\tab Since and after the time of the union, the insertion of the words \u8220\'93Upper Canada\u8221\'94 instead of \u8220\'93Ontario\u8221\'94, or \u8220\'93Lower Canada\u8221\'94 instead of \u8220\'93Quebec\u8221\'94, in any act, writ, procedure, plea, document, matter or thing, will not have the effect of invalidating it.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Proclamations not to take effect until after union\tab 139.\tab Any proclamation under the Great Seal of the Province of Canada, made before the time of union, to have effect from a date subsequent to union, whether relating to that province or to Upper Canada or to Lower Canada, and the various matters and things set forth therein will have and will continue to have the same force and the same effect as if the union had not taken place. (69)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Proclamations launched after the union\tab 140.\tab Any proclamation the issue of which under the Great Seal of the Province of Canada is authorized by any law of the Legislature of the Province of Canada, whether relating to that Province or to Upper Canada or Lower Canada, and which will not have been launched before the time of union, may be launched by the Lieutenant-Governor of Ontario or Quebec (as the case may be), under the Great Seal of the Province; and, from the issuance of this proclamation, the various matters and things set forth therein shall have and shall continue to have the same force and the same effect in Ontario or Quebec as if the union had not taken place. (70)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Penitentiary\tab 141.\tab The penitentiary of the Province of Canada, until the Parliament of Canada orders otherwise, shall be and continue to be the penitentiary of Ontario and Quebec. (71)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Debts referred to arbitration\tab 142.\tab The division and distribution of the debts, credits, obligations, property and assets of Upper and Lower Canada will be referred to the decision of three arbitrators, one of whom will be chosen by the Government of Ontario, one by the government of Quebec, and the other by the government of Canada; the choice of arbitrators will take place only after the Parliament of Canada and the legislatures of Ontario and Quebec have been brought together; the arbitrator chosen by the Government of Canada must not be domiciled in either Ontario or Quebec. (72)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Sharing archives\tab 143.\tab The Governor-General in Council may from time to time order that the archives, books and documents of the Province of Canada which he deems expedient to designate, be delivered and transferred to Ontario or Quebec, and they shall therefore become the property of of this province; any copy or extract of these documents, duly certified by the officer having custody of the originals, will be accepted as proof. (73)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Establishment of townships in Quebec\tab 144.\tab The Lieutenant-Governor of Quebec may, from time to time, by proclamation under the Great Seal of the Province to come in force on the day therein mentioned, establish townships in those parts of the Province of Quebec in which he does not have one. yet been established, and fix the ins and outs.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
X.   INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[Repealed]\tab 145.\tab Repealed. (74)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch
 }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
XI.   ADMISSION OF OTHER COLONIES}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Power to admit Terreneuve, etc.\tab 146.\tab which will be expressed in the addresses and which the Queen deems proper to approve, in accordance with this present; the provisions of any Orders in Council rendered in this regard shall have the same effect as if they had been enacted by the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.(75)}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1049{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Representation of Newfoundland and Prince Edward Island in the Senate\tab 147.\tab In the case of the admission of Newfoundland and Prince Edward Island, or either of these colonies, each shall be entitled to be represented by four members in the Senate of Canada; and (notwithstanding any contrary provision stated in this law) in the case of the admission of Newfoundland, the normal number of senators will be seventy-six and its maximum eighty-two; but when Prince Edward Island is admitted, it shall be deemed to be included in the third of the three divisions into which Canada is, with respect to the composition of the Senate, divided by this law; and, accordingly, after the admission of the Prince Edward Island, whether Newfoundland is admitted or not, the representation of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick in the Senate, as seats become vacant, will be reduced from twelve to ten members respectively; the representation of each of these provinces will never be increased beyond ten members, except under the authority of the provisions of this law relating to the appointment of three or six additional senators in consequence of an order of the Queen. will be reduced from twelve to ten members respectively; the representation of each of these provinces will never be increased beyond ten members, except under the authority of the provisions of this law relating to the appointment of three or six additional senators in consequence of an order of the Queen. will be reduced from twelve to ten members respectively; the representation of each of these provinces will never be increased beyond ten members, except under the authority of the provisions of this law relating to the appointment of three or six additional senators in consequence of an order of the Queen. }
\par }